Title	First Author First Name	First Author Surname	Corresponding Author First Name	Corresponding Author Surname	Corresponding Author Order	Publication Name	Alternate Name	Abstract	Url	Author Address	Year	DOI	Reference Type	PDF Relative Path	Keywords
Partner notification for sexually transmitted infections in developing countries: a systematic review		Alam, N., Chamot, E., Vermund, S. H., Streatfield, K. and Kristensen, S.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: The feasibility and acceptability of partner notification (PN) for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in developing countries was assessed through a comprehensive literature review, to help identify future intervention needs. METHODS: The Medline, Embase, and Google Scholar databases were searched to identify studies published between January 1995 and December 2007 on STI PN in developing countries. A systematic review of the research extracted information on: (1) willingness of index patients to notify partners; (2) the proportion of partners notified or referred; (3) client-reported barriers in notifying partners; (4) infrastructure barriers in notifying partners; and (5) PN approaches that were evaluated in developing countries. RESULTS: Out of 609 screened articles, 39 met our criteria. PN outcome varied widely and was implemented more often for spousal partners than for casual or commercial partners. Reported barriers included sociocultural factors such as stigma, fear of abuse for having an STI, and infrastructural factors related to the limited number of STD clinics, and trained providers and reliable diagnostic methods. Client-oriented counselling was found to be effective in improving partner referral outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: STD clinics can improve PN with client-oriented counselling, which should help clients to overcome perceived barriers. The authors speculate that well-designed PN interventions to evaluate the impact on STI prevalence and incidence along with cost-effectiveness components will motivate policy makers in developing countries to allocate more resources towards STI management.			2010				17
Inhaled nitric oxide in preterm infants: a systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis		Askie, L. M., Ballard, R. A., Cutter, G., Dani, C., Elbourne, D., Field, D., Hascoet, J. M., Hibbs, A. M., Kinsella, J. P., Mercier, J. C., Rich, W., Schreiber, M. D., Srisuparp, P., Subhedar, N. V., Van Meurs, K. P., Voysey, M., Barrington, K., Ehrenkranz, R. A., Finer, N. and Meta-Analysis of Preterm Patients on inhaled Nitric Oxide, Collaboration				bmc pediatrics	bmc pediatrics	BACKGROUND: Preterm infants requiring assisted ventilation are at significant risk of both pulmonary and cerebral injury. Inhaled Nitric Oxide, an effective therapy for pulmonary hypertension and hypoxic respiratory failure in the full term infant, has also been studied in preterm infants. The most recent Cochrane review of preterm infants includes 11 studies and 3,370 participants. The results show a statistically significant reduction in the combined outcome of death or chronic lung disease (CLD) in two studies with routine use of iNO in intubated preterm infants. However, uncertainty remains as a larger study (Kinsella 2006) showed no significant benefit for iNO for this combined outcome. Also, trials that included very ill infants do not demonstrate significant benefit. One trial of iNO treatment at a later postnatal age reported a decrease in the incidence of CLD. The aim of this individual patient meta-analysis is to confirm or refute these potentially conflicting results and to determine the extent to which patient or treatment characteristics may explain the results and/or may predict benefit from inhaled Nitric Oxide in preterm infants. METHODS/DESIGN: The Meta-Analysis of Preterm Patients on inhaled Nitric Oxide (MAPPiNO) Collaboration will perform an individual patient data meta-analysis to answer these important clinical questions. Studies will be included if preterm infants receiving assisted ventilation are randomized to receive inhaled Nitric Oxide or to a control group. The individual patient data provided by the Collaborators will be analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis where possible. Binary outcomes will be analyzed using log-binomial regression models and continuous outcomes will be analyzed using linear fixed effects models. Adjustments for trial differences will be made by including the trial variable in the model specification. DISCUSSION: Thirteen (13) trials, with a total of 3567 infants are eligible for inclusion in the MAPPiNO systematic review. To date 11 trials (n = 3298, 92% of available patients) have agreed to participate. Funding was successfully granted from Ikaria Inc as an unrestricted grant. A collaborative group was formed in 2006 with data collection commencing in 2007. It is anticipated that data analysis will commence in late 2009 with results being publicly available in 2010.			2010				45
The role of inhaled corticosteroids and montelukast in children with mild-moderate asthma: results of a systematic review with meta-analysis		Castro-Rodriguez, J. A. and Rodrigo, G. J.				archives of disease in childhood	archives of disease in childhood	OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) versus montelukast (MONT) in schoolchildren and adolescents with mild-moderate persistent asthma. METHODS: Randomised, prospective, controlled trials published January 1996 to November 2009 with a minimum of 4 weeks of ICS versus MONT and of ICS versus MONT+ICS were retrieved through Medline, Embase and Central databases. The primary outcome was asthma exacerbations requiring systemic corticosteroids (AEX); secondary outcomes were pulmonary function, withdrawal/hospitalisation due to AEX, change in symptoms score, rescue-medication-free days, albuterol use, adverse effects and adherence. RESULTS: Of 124 studies identified, 18 studies (n=3757 patients) met criteria for inclusion (13 compared ICS vs MONT, 3 ICS vs MONT+ICS and 2 ICS vs MONT vs ICS+MONT). Patients receiving ICS showed a significantly lower risk for AEX than those with MONT (RR=0.83, 95% CI 0.72 to 0.96, p=0.01); post-hoc analysis suggests this effect was independent of quality, sponsorship and study duration. Children treated with ICS had a significant higher pulmonary function (final FEV1 % predicted, change from baseline FEV1 %, final morning peak expiratory flow (PEF)) and better clinical parameters (albuterol use, symptom score, rescue-medication-free days, withdrawals due to AEX) versus MONT. No significant difference in primary or secondary outcomes was found when MONT was added on to ICS versus ICS alone; however, these analyses were based on only two studies. CONCLUSIONS: Schoolchildren and adolescents with mild-moderate persistent asthma treated with ICS had less AEX and better lung function and asthma control than with MONT. There are insufficient data to determine whether the addition of MONT to ICS improves outcome.			2010				122
Complications related to deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis in trauma: a systematic review of the literature		Datta, I., Ball, C. G., Rudmik, L., Hameed, S. M. and Kortbeek, J. B.				journal of trauma management & outcomes	journal of trauma management & outcomes	Deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis is essential to the appropriate management of multisystem trauma patients. Without thromboprophylaxis, the rate of venous thrombosis and subsequent pulmonary embolism is substantial. Three prophylactic modalities are common: pharmacologic anticoagulation, mechanical compression devices, and inferior vena cava filtration. A systematic review was completed using PRISMA guidelines to evaluate the potential complications of DVT prophylactic options. Level one evidence currently supports the use of low molecular weight heparins for thromboprophylaxis in the trauma patient. Unfortunately, multiple techniques are not infrequently required for complex multisystem trauma patients. Each modality has potential complications. The risks of heparin include bleeding and heparin induced thrombocytopenia. Mechanical compression devices can result in local soft tissue injury, bleeding and patient non-compliance. Inferior vena cava filters migrate, cause inferior vena cava occlusion, and penetrate the vessel wall. While the use of these techniques can be life saving, they must be appropriately utilized.			2010				177
Subnormal vitamin B12 concentrations and anaemia in older people: a systematic review		den Elzen, W. P., van der Weele, G. M., Gussekloo, J., Westendorp, R. G. and Assendelft, W. J.				bmc geriatrics	bmc geriatrics	BACKGROUND: Pernicious anaemia is undeniably associated with vitamin B12 deficiency, but the association between subnormal vitamin B12 concentrations and anaemia in older people is unclear. The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the association between subnormal vitamin B12 concentrations and anaemia in older people. METHODS: Clinical queries for aetiology and treatment in bibliographic databases (PubMed [01/1949-10/2009]; EMBASE [01/1980-10/2009]) were used. Reference lists were checked for additional relevant studies. Observational studies (> or =50 participants) and randomized placebo-controlled intervention trials (RCTs) were considered. RESULTS: 25 studies met the inclusion criteria. Twenty-one observational cross-sectional studies (total number of participants n = 16185) showed inconsistent results. In one longitudinal observational study, low vitamin B12 concentrations were not associated with an increased risk of anaemia (total n = 423). The 3 RCTs (total n = 210) were well-designed and showed no effect of vitamin B12 supplementation on haemoglobin concentrations during follow-up in subjects with subnormal vitamin B12 concentrations at the start of the study. Due to large clinical and methodological heterogeneity, statistical pooling of data was not performed. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence of a positive association between a subnormal serum vitamin B12 concentration and anaemia in older people is limited and inconclusive. Further well-designed studies are needed to determine whether subnormal vitamin B12 is a risk factor for anaemia in older people.			2010				193
Exercise and global well-being in community-dwelling adults with fibromyalgia: a systematic review with meta-analysis		Kelley, G. A., Kelley, K. S., Hootman, J. M. and Jones, D. L.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Exercise has been recommended for improving global-well being in adults with fibromyalgia. However, no meta-analysis has determined the effects of exercise on global well-being using a single instrument and when analyzed separately according to intention-to-treat and per-protocol analyses. The purpose of this study was to fill that gap. METHODS: Studies were derived from six electronic sources, cross-referencing from retrieved studies and expert review. Dual selection of randomized controlled exercise training studies published between January 1, 1980 and January 1, 2008 and in which global well-being was assessed using the Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQ) were included. Dual abstraction of data for study, subject and exercise program characteristics as well as assessment of changes in global well-being using the total score from the FIQ was conducted. Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane bias assessment tool. Random-effects models and Hedge's standardized effect size (g) were used to pool results according to per-protocol and intention-to-treat analyses. RESULTS: Of 1,025 studies screened, 7 representing 5 per-protocol and 5 intention-to-treat outcomes in 473 (280 exercise, 193 control) primarily female (99%) participants 18-73 years of age were included. Small, statistically significant improvements in global well-being were observed for per-protocol (g and 95% confidence interval, -0.39, -0.69 to -0.08) and intention-to-treat (-0.34, -0.53 to -0.14) analyses. No statistically significant within-group heterogeneity was found (per-protocol, Qw = 6.04, p = 0.20, I2 = 33.8%; intention-to-treat, Qw = 3.19, p = 0.53, I2 = 0%) and no between-group differences for per-protocol and intention-to-treat outcomes were observed (Qb = 0.07, p = 0.80). Changes were equivalent to improvements of 8.2% for per-protocol analyses and 7.3% for intention-to-treat analyses. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that exercise improves global well-being in community-dwelling women with fibromyalgia. However, additional research on this topic is needed, including research in men as well as optimal exercise programs for improving global well-being in adults.			2010				392
Systematic evidence review of newborn screening and treatment of severe combined immunodeficiency		Lipstein, E. A., Vorono, S., Browning, M. F., Green, N. S., Kemper, A. R., Knapp, A. A., Prosser, L. A. and Perrin, J. M.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: Severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID) is a group of disorders that leads to early childhood death as a result of severe infections. Recent research has addressed potential newborn screening for SCID. OBJECTIVE: To conduct a systematic review of the evidence for newborn screening for SCID, including test characteristics, treatment efficacy, and cost-effectiveness. METHODS: We searched Medline and the OVID In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations databases. We excluded articles if they were reviews, editorials or other opinion pieces, or case series of fewer than 4 patients or if they contained only adult subjects or nonhuman data. The remaining articles were systematically evaluated, and data were abstracted by 2 independent reviewers using standardized tools. For topics that lacked published evidence, we interviewed experts in the field. RESULTS: The initial search resulted in 719 articles. Twenty-six met inclusion criteria. The results of several small studies suggested that screening for SCID is possible. Interviews revealed that 2 states have begun pilot screening programs. Evidence from large case series indicates that children receiving early stem-cell transplant for SCID have improved outcomes compared with children who were treated later. There is some inconclusive evidence regarding the need for donor-recipient matching and use of pretransplant chemotherapy. Few data on the cost-effectiveness of a SCID-screening program. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence indicates the benefits of early treatment of SCID and the possibility of population-based newborn screening. Better information on optimal treatment and the costs of treatment and screening would benefit policy makers deciding among competing health care priorities.			2010				470
Screening for child abuse at emergency departments: a systematic review		Louwers, E. C., Affourtit, M. J., Moll, H. A., de Koning, H. J. and Korfage, I. J.				archives of disease in childhood	archives of disease in childhood	INTRODUCTION: Child abuse is a serious problem worldwide and can be difficult to detect. Although children who experience the consequences of abuse will probably be treated at an emergency department, detection rates of child abuse at emergency departments remain low. OBJECTIVE: To identify effective interventions applied at emergency departments that significantly increase the detection rate of confirmed cases of child abuse. DESIGN: This review was carried out according to the Cochrane Handbook. Two reviewers individually searched PubMed, the Cochrane Library, EMBASE, Web of Science and CINAHL for papers that met the inclusion criteria. RESULTS: Fifteen papers describing interventions were selected and reviewed; four of these were finally included and assessed for quality. In these studies the intervention consisted of a checklist of indicators of risk for child abuse. After implementation, the rate of detected cases of suspected child abuse increased by 180% (weighted mean in three studies). The number of confirmed cases of child abuse, reported in two out of four studies, showed no significant increase. CONCLUSIONS: Interventions at emergency departments to increase the detection rate of cases of confirmed child abuse are scarce in the literature. Past study numbers and methodology have been inadequate to show conclusive evidence on effectiveness.			2010				482
Effects on coronary heart disease of increasing polyunsaturated fat in place of saturated fat: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Mozaffarian, D., Micha, R. and Wallace, S.				plos medicine	plos medicine	BACKGROUND: Reduced saturated fat (SFA) consumption is recommended to reduce coronary heart disease (CHD), but there is an absence of strong supporting evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of clinical CHD events and few guidelines focus on any specific replacement nutrient. Additionally, some public health groups recommend lowering or limiting polyunsaturated fat (PUFA) consumption, a major potential replacement for SFA. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We systematically investigated and quantified the effects of increased PUFA consumption, as a replacement for SFA, on CHD endpoints in RCTs. RCTs were identified by systematic searches of multiple online databases through June 2009, grey literature sources, hand-searching related articles and citations, and direct contacts with experts to identify potentially unpublished trials. Studies were included if they randomized participants to increased PUFA for at least 1 year without major concomitant interventions, had an appropriate control group, and reported incidence of CHD (myocardial infarction and/or cardiac death). Inclusions/exclusions were adjudicated and data were extracted independently and in duplicate by two investigators and included population characteristics, control and intervention diets, follow-up duration, types of events, risk ratios, and SEs. Pooled effects were calculated using inverse-variance-weighted random effects meta-analysis. From 346 identified abstracts, eight trials met inclusion criteria, totaling 13,614 participants with 1,042 CHD events. Average weighted PUFA consumption was 14.9% energy (range 8.0%-20.7%) in intervention groups versus 5.0% energy (range 4.0%-6.4%) in controls. The overall pooled risk reduction was 19% (RR = 0.81, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.70-0.95, p = 0.008), corresponding to 10% reduced CHD risk (RR = 0.90, 95% CI = 0.83-0.97) for each 5% energy of increased PUFA, without evidence for statistical heterogeneity (Q-statistic p = 0.13; I(2) = 37%). Meta-regression identified study duration as an independent determinant of risk reduction (p = 0.017), with studies of longer duration showing greater benefits. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide evidence that consuming PUFA in place of SFA reduces CHD events in RCTs. This suggests that rather than trying to lower PUFA consumption, a shift toward greater population PUFA consumption in place of SFA would significantly reduce rates of CHD. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.			2010				575
Therapeutic value of zinc supplementation in acute and persistent diarrhea: a systematic review		Patel, A., Mamtani, M., Dibley, M. J., Badhoniya, N. and Kulkarni, H.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: For over a decade, the importance of zinc in the treatment of acute and persistent diarrhea has been recognized. In spite of recently published reviews, there remain several unanswered questions about the role of zinc supplementation in childhood diarrhea in the developing countries. Our study aimed to assess the therapeutic benefits of zinc supplementation in the treatment of acute or persistent diarrhea in children, and to examine the causes of any heterogeneity of response to zinc supplementation. METHODS AND FINDINGS: EMBASE, MEDLINE and CINAHL databases were searched for published reviews and meta-analyses on the use of zinc supplementation for the prevention and treatment of childhood diarrhea. Additional RCTs published following the meta-analyses were also sought. The reviews and published RCTs were qualitatively mapped followed by updated random-effects meta-analyses, subgroup meta-analyses and meta-regression to quantify and characterize the role of zinc supplementation with diarrhea-related outcomes. We found that although there was evidence to support the use of zinc to treat diarrhea in children, there was significant unexplained heterogeneity across the studies for the effect of zinc supplementation in reducing important diarrhea outcomes. Zinc supplementation reduced the mean duration of diarrhea by 19.7% but had no effect on stool frequency or stool output, and increased the risk of vomiting. Our subgroup meta-analyses and meta-regression showed that age, stunting, breast-feeding and baseline zinc levels could not explain the heterogeneity associated with differential reduction in the mean diarrheal duration. However, the baseline zinc levels may not be representative of the existing zinc deficiency state. CONCLUSIONS: Understanding the predictors of zinc efficacy including the role of diarrheal disease etiology on the response to zinc would help to identify the populations most likely to benefit from supplementation. To improve the programmatic use of zinc, further evaluations of the zinc salts used, the dose, the frequency and duration of supplementation, and its acceptability are required. The significant heterogeneity of responses to zinc suggests the need to revisit the strategy of universal zinc supplementation in the treatment children with acute diarrhea in developing countries.			2010				636
Efficacy and acceptability of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors for the treatment of depression in Parkinson's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Skapinakis, P., Bakola, E., Salanti, G., Lewis, G., Kyritsis, A. P. and Mavreas, V.				bmc neurology	bmc neurology	BACKGROUND: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the most commonly prescribed antidepressants for the treatment of depression in patients with Parkinson's Disease (PD) but data on their efficacy are controversial. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials to investigate the efficacy and acceptability of SSRIs in the treatment of depression in PD. RESULTS: Ten studies were included. In the comparison between SSRIs and Placebo (n = 6 studies), the combined risk ratio (random effects) was 1.08 (95% confidence interval: 0.77 - 1.55, p = 0.67). In the comparison between SSRIs and Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs) (n = 3 studies) the combined risk ratio was 0.75 (0.39 - 1.42, p = 0.37). An acceptability analysis showed that SSRIs were generally well tolerated. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that there is insufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis of no differences in efficacy between SSRIs and placebo in the treatment of depression in PD. Due to the limited number of studies and the small sample sizes a type II error (false negative) cannot be excluded. The comparison between SSRIs and TCAs is based on only three studies and further trials with more pragmatic design are needed.			2010				760
Cardiotoxicity of anthracycline agents for the treatment of cancer: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials		Smith, L. A., Cornelius, V. R., Plummer, C. J., Levitt, G., Verrill, M., Canney, P. and Jones, A.				bmc cancer	bmc cancer	BACKGROUND: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to clarify the risk of early and late cardiotoxicity of anthracycline agents in patients treated for breast or ovarian cancer, lymphoma, myeloma or sarcoma. METHODS: Randomized controlled trials were sought using comprehensive searches of electronic databases in June 2008. Reference lists of retrieved articles were also scanned for additional articles. Outcomes investigated were early or late clinical and sub-clinical cardiotoxicity. Trial quality was assessed, and data were pooled through meta-analysis where appropriate. RESULTS: Fifty-five published RCTs were included; the majority were on women with advanced breast cancer. A significantly greater risk of clinical cardiotoxicity was found with anthracycline compared with non-anthracycline regimens (OR 5.43 95% confidence interval: 2.34, 12.62), anthracycline versus mitoxantrone (OR 2.88 95% confidence interval: 1.29, 6.44), and bolus versus continuous anthracycline infusions (OR 4.13 95% confidence interval: 1.75, 9.72). Risk of clinical cardiotoxicity was significantly lower with epirubicin versus doxorubicin (OR 0.39 95% confidence interval: 0.20, 0.78), liposomal versus non-liposomal doxorubicin (OR 0.18 95% confidence interval: 0.08, 0.38) and with a concomitant cardioprotective agent (OR 0.21 95% confidence interval: 0.13, 0.33). No statistical heterogeneity was found for these pooled analyses. A similar pattern of results were found for subclinical cardiotoxicity; with risk significantly greater with anthracycline containing regimens and bolus administration; and significantly lower risk with epirubicin, liposomal doxorubicin versus doxorubicin but not epirubicin, and with concomitant use of a cardioprotective agent. Low to moderate statistical heterogeneity was found for two of the five pooled analyses, perhaps due to the different criteria used for reduction in Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction. Meta-analyses of any cardiotoxicity (clinical and subclinical) showed moderate to high statistical heterogeneity for four of five pooled analyses; criteria for any cardiotoxic event differed between studies. Nonetheless the pattern of results was similar to those for clinical or subclinical cardiotoxicity described above. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence is not sufficiently robust to support clear evidence-based recommendations on different anthracycline treatment regimens, or for routine use of cardiac protective agents or liposomal formulations. There is a need to improve cardiac monitoring in oncology trials.			2010				765
Interventions for renal vasculitis in adults. A systematic review		Walters, G. D., Willis, N. S. and Craig, J. C.				bmc nephrology	bmc nephrology	BACKGROUND: Renal vasculitis presents as rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis and comprises of a group of conditions characterised by acute kidney failure, haematuria and proteinuria. Treatment of these conditions involves the use of steroid and non-steroid agents with or without adjunctive plasma exchange. Although immunosuppression has been successful, many questions remain unanswered in terms of dose and duration of therapy, the use of plasma exchange and the role of new therapies. This systematic review was conducted to determine the benefits and harms of any intervention for the treatment of renal vasculitis in adults. METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, the Cochrane Renal Group Specialised Register, MEDLINE and EMBASE to June 2009. Randomised controlled trials investigating any intervention for the treatment of adults were included. Two authors independently assessed study quality and extracted data. Statistical analyses were performed using a random effects model and results expressed as risk ratio with 95% confidence intervals for dichotomous outcomes or mean difference for continuous outcomes. RESULTS: Twenty two studies (1674 patients) were included. Plasma exchange as adjunctive therapy significantly reduces the risk of end-stage kidney disease at 12 months (five studies: RR 0.47, CI 0.30 to 0.75). Four studies compared the use of pulse and continuous administration of cyclophosphamide. Remission rates were equivalent but pulse treatment causes an increased risk of relapse (4 studies: RR 1.79, CI 1.11 to 2.87) compared with continuous cyclophosphamide. Azathioprine has equivalent efficacy as a maintenance agent to cyclophosphamide with fewer episodes of leukopenia. Mycophenolate mofetil may be equivalent to cyclophosphamide as an induction agent but resulted in a higher relapse rate when tested against Azathioprine in remission maintenance. Rituximab is an effective remission induction agent. Methotrexate or Leflunomide are potential choices in remission maintenance therapy. Oral co-trimoxazole did not reduce relapses significantly in Wegener's granulomatosis. CONCLUSIONS: Plasma exchange is effective in patients with severe ARF secondary to vasculitis. Pulse cyclophosphamide results in an increased risk of relapse when compared to continuous oral use but a reduced total dose. Whilst cyclophosphamide is standard induction treatment, rituximab and mycophenolate mofetil are also effective. Azathioprine, methotrexate and leflunomide are effective as maintenance therapy. Further studies are required to more clearly delineate the appropriate place of newer agents within an evidence-based therapeutic strategy.			2010				866
Complications of circumcision in male neonates, infants and children: a systematic review		Weiss, H. A., Larke, N., Halperin, D. and Schenker, I.				bmc urology	bmc urology	BACKGROUND: Approximately one in three men are circumcised globally, but there are relatively few data on the safety of the procedure. The aim of this paper is to summarize the literature on frequency of adverse events following pediatric circumcision, with a focus on developing countries. METHODS: PubMed and other databasess were searched with keywords and MeSH terms including infant/newborn/pediatric/child, circumcision, complications and adverse events. Searches included all available years and were conducted on November 6th 2007 and updated on February 14th 2009. Additional searches of the Arabic literature included searches of relevant databases and University libraries for research theses on male circumcision.Studies were included if they contained data to estimate frequency of adverse events following neonatal, infant and child circumcision. There was no language restriction. A total of 1349 published papers were identified, of which 52 studies from 21 countries met the inclusion criteria. The Arabic literature searches identified 46 potentially relevant papers, of which six were included. RESULTS: Sixteen prospective studies evaluated complications following neonatal and infant circumcision. Most studies reported no severe adverse events (SAE), but two studies reported SAE frequency of 2%. The median frequency of any complication was 1.5% (range 0-16%). Child circumcision by medical providers tended to be associated with more complications (median frequency 6%; range 2-14%) than for neonates and infants. Traditional circumcision as a rite of passage is associated with substantially greater risks, more severe complications than medical circumcision or traditional circumcision among neonates. CONCLUSIONS: Studies report few severe complications following circumcision. However, mild or moderate complications are seen, especially when circumcision is undertaken at older ages, by inexperienced providers or in non-sterile conditions. Pediatric circumcision will continue to be practiced for cultural, medical and as a long-term HIV/STI prevention strategy. Risk-reduction strategies including improved training of providers, and provision of appropriate sterile equipment, are urgently needed.			2010				886
Effectiveness of weight management interventions in children: a targeted systematic review for the USPSTF		Whitlock, E. P., O'Connor, E. A., Williams, S. B., Beil, T. L. and Lutz, K. W.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: Targeted systematic review to support the updated US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendation on screening for obesity in children and adolescents. OBJECTIVES: To examine the benefits and harms of behavioral and pharmacologic weight-management interventions for overweight and obese children and adolescents. METHODS: Our data sources were Ovid Medline, PsycINFO, the Education Resources Information Center, the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, the Cochrane databases, reference lists of other reviews and trials, and expert recommendations. After 2 investigators reviewed 2786 abstracts and 369 articles against inclusion/exclusion criteria, we included 15 fair- to good-quality trials in which the effects of treatment on weight, weight-related comorbidities, and harms were evaluated. Studies were quality rated by 2 investigators using established criteria. Investigators abstracted data into standard evidence tables. RESULTS: In the available research, obese (or overweight) children and adolescents aged 4 to 18 years were enrolled, and no studies targeted those younger than 4 years. Comprehensive behavioral interventions of medium-to-high intensity were the most effective behavioral approach with 1.9 to 3.3 kg/m(2) difference favoring intervention groups at 12 months. More limited evidence suggests that these improvements can be maintained over the 12 months after the end of treatments and that there are few harms with behavioral interventions. Two medications combined with behavioral interventions resulted in small (0.85 kg/m(2) for orlistat) or moderate (2.6 kg/m(2) for sibutramine) BMI reduction in obese adolescents on active medication; however, no studies followed weight changes after medication use ended. Potential adverse effects were greater than for behavioral interventions alone and varied in severity. Only 1 medication (orlistat) has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for prescription use in those aged > or =12 years. CONCLUSIONS: Over the past several years, research into weight management in obese children and adolescents has improved in quality and quantity. Despite important gaps, available research supports at least short-term benefits of comprehensive medium- to high-intensity behavioral interventions in obese children and adolescents.			2010				891
Internet-based medical education: a realist review of what works, for whom and in what circumstances		Wong, G., Greenhalgh, T. and Pawson, R.				bmc medical education	bmc medical education	BACKGROUND: Educational courses for doctors and medical students are increasingly offered via the Internet. Despite much research, course developers remain unsure about what (if anything) to offer online and how. Prospective learners lack evidence-based guidance on how to choose between the options on offer. We aimed to produce theory driven criteria to guide the development and evaluation of Internet-based medical courses. METHODS: Realist review - a qualitative systematic review method whose goal is to identify and explain the interaction between context, mechanism and outcome. We searched 15 electronic databases and references of included articles, seeking to identify theoretical models of how the Internet might support learning from empirical studies which (a) used the Internet to support learning, (b) involved doctors or medical students; and (c) reported a formal evaluation. All study designs and outcomes were considered. Using immersion and interpretation, we tested theories by considering how well they explained the different outcomes achieved in different educational contexts. RESULTS: 249 papers met our inclusion criteria. We identified two main theories of the course-in-context that explained variation in learners' satisfaction and outcomes: Davis's Technology Acceptance Model and Laurillard's model of interactive dialogue. Learners were more likely to accept a course if it offered a perceived advantage over available non-Internet alternatives, was easy to use technically, and compatible with their values and norms. 'Interactivity' led to effective learning only if learners were able to enter into a dialogue - with a tutor, fellow students or virtual tutorials - and gain formative feedback. CONCLUSIONS: Different modes of course delivery suit different learners in different contexts. When designing or choosing an Internet-based course, attention must be given to the fit between its technical attributes and learners' needs and priorities; and to ways of providing meaningful interaction. We offer a preliminary set of questions to aid course developers and learners consider these issues.			2010				902
Fear of hypoglycaemia in parents of young children with type 1 diabetes: a systematic review		Barnard, K., Thomas, S., Royle, P., Noyes, K. and Waugh, N.				bmc pediatrics	bmc pediatrics	BACKGROUND: Many children with type 1 diabetes have poor glycaemic control. Since the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) showed that tighter control reduces complication rates, there has been more emphasis on intensified insulin therapy. We know that patients and families are afraid of hypoglycaemia. We hypothesised that fear of hypoglycaemia might take precedence over concern about long-term complications, and that behaviour to avoid hypoglycaemia might be at the cost of poorer control, and aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of any interventions designed to prevent that. The objective of this review was to systematically review studies concerning the extent and consequences of fear of hypoglycaemia in parents of children under 12 years of age with type 1 diabetes, and interventions to reduce it. METHODS: None DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, The Cochrane Library, Web of Science, meeting abstracts of EASD, ADA and Diabetes UK, Current Controlled Trials, ClinicalTrials.gov, UK CRN, scrutiny of bibliographies of retrieved papers and contact with experts in the field.Inclusions: Relevant studies of any design of parents of children under 12 years of age with Type 1 diabetes were included. The key outcomes were the extent and impact of fear, hypoglycaemia avoidance behaviour in parents due to parental fear of hypoglycaemia in their children, the effect on diabetes control, and the impact of interventions to reduce this fear and hypoglycaemia avoidance behaviour. RESULTS: Eight articles from six studies met the inclusion criteria. All were cross sectional studies and most were of good quality. Parental fear of hypoglycaemia, anxiety and depression were reported to be common. There was a paucity of evidence on behaviour to avoid hypoglycaemia, but there were some suggestions that higher than desirable blood glucose levels might be permitted in order to avoid hypoglycaemia. No studies reporting interventions to reduce parental fear of hypoglycaemia were found. CONCLUSIONS: The evidence base was limited. Parents of children with Type 1 diabetes reported considerable parental fear of hypoglycaemia, affecting both parental health and quality of life. There is some suggestion that hypoglycaemia avoidance behaviours by parents might adversely affect glycaemic control. Trials of interventions to reduce parental anxiety and hypoglycaemia avoidance behaviour are needed. We suggest that there should be a trial of structured education for parents of young children with Type 1 diabetes.			2010				56
Efficacy and safety of corticosteroid injections and other injections for management of tendinopathy: a systematic review of randomised controlled trials		Coombes, B. K., Bisset, L. and Vicenzino, B.				lancet	lancet	BACKGROUND: Few evidence-based treatment guidelines for tendinopathy exist. We undertook a systematic review of randomised trials to establish clinical efficacy and risk of adverse events for treatment by injection. METHODS: We searched eight databases without language, publication, or date restrictions. We included randomised trials assessing efficacy of one or more peritendinous injections with placebo or non-surgical interventions for tendinopathy, scoring more than 50% on the modified physiotherapy evidence database scale. We undertook meta-analyses with a random-effects model, and estimated relative risk and standardised mean differences (SMDs). The primary outcome of clinical efficacy was protocol-defined pain score in the short term (4 weeks, range 0-12), intermediate term (26 weeks, 13-26), or long term (52 weeks, ?52). Adverse events were also reported. FINDINGS: 3824 trials were identified and 41 met inclusion criteria, providing data for 2672 participants. We showed consistent findings between many high-quality randomised controlled trials that corticosteroid injections reduced pain in the short term compared with other interventions, but this effect was reversed at intermediate and long terms. For example, in pooled analysis of treatment for lateral epicondylalgia, corticosteroid injection had a large effect (defined as SMD>0·8) on reduction of pain compared with no intervention in the short term (SMD 1·44, 95% CI 1·17-1·71, p<0·0001), but no intervention was favoured at intermediate term (-0·40, -0·67 to -0·14, p<0·003) and long term (-0·31, -0·61 to -0·01, p=0·05). Short-term efficacy of corticosteroid injections for rotator-cuff tendinopathy is not clear. Of 991 participants who received corticosteroid injections in studies that reported adverse events, only one (0·1%) had a serious adverse event (tendon rupture). By comparison with placebo, reductions in pain were reported after injections of sodium hyaluronate (short [3·91, 3·54-4·28, p<0·0001], intermediate [2·89, 2·58-3·20, p<0·0001], and long [3·91, 3·55-4·28, p<0·0001] terms), botulinum toxin (short term [1·23, 0·67-1·78, p<0·0001]), and prolotherapy (intermediate term [2·62, 1·36-3·88, p<0·0001]) for treatment of lateral epicondylalgia. Lauromacrogol (polidocanol), aprotinin, and platelet-rich plasma were not more efficacious than was placebo for Achilles tendinopathy, while prolotherapy was not more effective than was eccentric exercise. INTERPRETATION: Despite the effectiveness of corticosteroid injections in the short term, non-corticosteroid injections might be of benefit for long-term treatment of lateral epicondylalgia. However, response to injection should not be generalised because of variation in effect between sites of tendinopathy. FUNDING: None.			2010				160
The effectiveness of interventions to reduce neurological injuries in rugby union: a systematic review		Cusimano, M. D., Nassiri, F. and Chang, Y.				neurosurgery	neurosurgery	BACKGROUND: Rugby is characterized by high-speed collisions among the players that predispose them to injuries, particularly to the head, neck, and spine. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of current neurological injury prevention strategies in rugby union. METHODS: Systematic review in May 2010. We assessed the quality and content of studies that evaluated injury prevention strategies for rugby players and reported on neurological outcomes. We searched OVID Medline, OVID HealthStar, CINAHL, Sport Discus, PubMed, Scholar's Portal Physical Education Index, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Controlled Clinical Trials Register (CENTRAL) and conducted a manual search of the cited literature lists of each included study. RESULTS: Ten articles are included in the review, with 2 of these assessing both headgear and mouthguards. Four studies reported insignificant reductions in neurological injury with the use of headgear. The results of 4 studies on the effectiveness of mouthguards in preventing neurological injury were inconclusive. Four studies reported significant reductions in neurological injury after the implementation of nationwide multifaceted injury prevention strategies with a focus on education CONCLUSION: There is limited evidence to support the effectiveness of mouthguards and headgear in reducing neurological injuries; however, system-wide, mandatory interventions are useful in reducing neurological injuries in rugby.			2010				168
A systematic review of psychosocial interventions for family carers of palliative care patients		Hudson, P. L., Remedios, C. and Thomas, K.				bmc palliative care	bmc palliative care	BACKGROUND: Being a family carer to a patient nearing the end of their life is a challenging and confronting experience. Studies show that caregiving can have negative consequences on the health of family carers including fatigue, sleep problems, depression, anxiety and burnout. One of the goals of palliative care is to provide psychosocial support to patients and families facing terminal illness. A systematic review of interventions for family carers of cancer and palliative care patients conducted at the start of this millennium demonstrated that there was a dearth of rigorous inquiry on this topic and consequently limited knowledge regarding the types of interventions likely to be effective in meeting the complex needs of family carers. We wanted to discern whether or not the evidence base to support family carers has improved. Furthermore, undertaking this review was acknowledged as one of the priorities for the International Palliative Care Family Carer Research Collaboration http://www.centreforpallcare.org. METHODS: A systematic review was undertaken in order to identify developments in family carer support that have occurred over the last decade. The focus of the review was on interventions that targeted improvements in the psychosocial support of family carers of palliative care patients. Studies were graded to assess their quality. RESULTS: A total of fourteen studies met the inclusion criteria. The focus of interventions included psycho-education, psychosocial support, carer coping, symptom management, sleep promotion and family meetings. Five studies were randomised controlled trials, three of which met the criteria for the highest quality evidence. There were two prospective studies, five pre-test/post-test projects and two qualitative studies. CONCLUSIONS: The systematic review identified a slight increase in the quality and quantity of psychosocial interventions conducted for family carers in the last decade. More rigorous intervention research is required in order to meet the supportive care needs of family carers of palliative care patients.			2010				338
Safety of uninterrupted anticoagulation in patients requiring elective coronary angiography with or without percutaneous coronary intervention: a systematic review and metaanalysis		Jamula, E., Lloyd, N. S., Schwalm, J. D., Airaksinen, K. E. and Douketis, J. D.				chest	chest	BACKGROUND: Patients who are receiving vitamin K antagonist (VKA) therapy pose challenges when they require surgery or invasive procedures because the risk for bleeding during the procedure must be balanced against the risk of an atherothrombotic event if the VKA is interrupted. However, it may be possible to safely perform some procedures, such as coronary angiography with or without percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), without VKA interruption. METHODS: We undertook a systematic review and metaanalysis to assess the safety of a periprocedural management strategy of uninterrupted VKA (U-VKA) vs interrupted VKA (I-VKA) with or without bridging with low-molecular-weight heparin in patients undergoing elective coronary angiography with or without PCI. RESULTS: Eight studies were included in the review. Most were of moderate to very low quality. A strategy of U-VKA appears to confer approximately one-half the risk (odds ratio, 0.43; 95% CI, 0.26-0.73) of experiencing an access site bleeding complication within 1 week of the procedure compared with a strategy of I-VKA. The U-VKA strategy was associated with a pooled access site bleeding complication rate of 4.0% (95% CI, 3.0-7.0), and although high heterogeneity precluded pooling of such a rate in the I-VKA group, these rates ranged from 2% to 14%. CONCLUSION: Although it appears that coronary angiography with or without PCI can be safely performed without interrupting VKA, the low methodologic quality of existing studies precludes any definitive conclusions. Randomized trials assessing different anticoagulation strategies are needed to establish evidence-based practice guidelines in this setting.			2010				360
Linking sexual and reproductive health and HIV interventions: a systematic review		Kennedy, C. E., Spaulding, A. B., Brickley, D. B., Almers, L., Mirjahangir, J., Packel, L., Kennedy, G. E., Mbizvo, M., Collins, L. and Osborne, K.				journal of the international aids society	journal of the international aids society	"BACKGROUND: The international community agrees that the Millennium Development Goals will not be achieved without ensuring universal access to both sexual and reproductive health (SRH) services and HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, care and support. Recently, there has been increasing awareness and discussion of the possible benefits of linkages between SRH and HIV programmes at the policy, systems and service delivery levels. However, the evidence for the efficacy of these linkages has not been systematically assessed. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of the evidence for interventions linking SRH and HIV. Structured methods were employed for searching, screening and data extraction. Studies from 1990 to 2007 reporting pre-post or multi-arm evaluation data from SRH-HIV linkage interventions were included. Study design rigour was scored on a nine-point scale. Unpublished programme reports were gathered as ""promising practices"". RESULTS: Of more than 50,000 citations identified, 185 studies were included in the review and 35 were analyzed. These studies had heterogeneous interventions, populations, objectives, study designs, rigour and measured outcomes. SRH-HIV linkage interventions were generally considered beneficial and feasible. The majority of studies showed improvements in all outcomes measured. While there were some mixed results, there were very few negative findings. Generally, positive effects were shown for key outcomes, including HIV incidence, sexually transmitted infection incidence, condom use, contraceptive use, uptake of HIV testing and quality of services. Promising practices (n = 23) tended to evaluate more recent and more comprehensive programmes. Factors promoting effective linkages included stakeholder involvement, capacity building, positive staff attitudes, non-stigmatizing services, and engagement of key populations. CONCLUSIONS: Existing evidence provides support for linkages, although significant gaps in the literature remain. Policy makers, programme managers and researchers should continue to advocate for, support, implement and rigorously evaluate SRH and HIV linkages at the policy, systems and service levels."			2010				395
Moxibustion for hypertension: a systematic review		Kim, J. I., Choi, J. Y., Lee, H., Lee, M. S. and Ernst, E.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: Moxibustion is a traditional East Asian medical therapy that uses the heat generated by burning herbal preparations containing Artemisia vulgaris to stimulate acupuncture points. The aim of this review was to evaluate previously published clinical evidence for the use of moxibustion as a treatment for hypertension. METHODS: We searched 15 databases without language restrictions from their respective dates of inception until March 2010. We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing moxibustion to either antihypertensive drugs or no treatment. The risk of bias was assessed for each RCT. RESULTS: During the course of our search, we identified 519 relevant articles. A total of 4 RCTs met all the inclusion criteria, two of which failed to report favorable effects of moxibustion on blood pressure (BP) compared to the control (antihypertensive drug treatment alone). However, a third RCT showed significant effects of moxibustion as an adjunct treatment to antihypertensive drug therapy for lowering BP compared to antihypertensive drug therapy alone. The fourth RCT included in this review addressed the immediate BP-lowering effects of moxibustion compared to no treatment. None of the included RCTs reported the sequence generation, allocation concealment and evaluator blinding. CONCLUSION: There is insufficient evidence to suggest that moxibustion is an effective treatment for hypertension. Rigorously designed trials are warranted to answer the many remaining questions.			2010				404
Statins and clinical outcome of acute ischemic stroke: a systematic review		Lakhan, S. E., Bagchi, S. and Hofer, M.				international archives of medicine	international archives of medicine	BACKGROUND: Statin therapy is considered an effective measure for the prevention of ischemic stroke. Several recent studies have indicated that treatment with statins, prior to the onset of acute ischemic stroke, may also substantially reduce the severity of stroke and the degree of patient disability. The purpose of the present review is to systematically evaluate the effectiveness of statin pretreatment on functional outcome of acute ischemic stroke and to assess potential adverse events associated with statin use. METHODS: Relevant articles on the role of statins in acute ischemic stroke were identified via MEDLINE/PubMed, EMBASE, CENTRAL, and by manual searches of the references of identified papers. Clinical studies (most were prospective cohort studies) assessing statin therapy for acute ischemic stroke were selected for the review. Only two randomized controlled clinical trials met the criteria to be included in the analysis. Clinical outcome was assessed based on the degree of disability determined with the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) and Barthel index (BI). The National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was used to measure stroke severity. Recurrence of stroke in patients who had suffered from a previous stroke was analyzed with and without statin therapy. Incidence and severity of adverse reactions was reviewed. Because there were too many differences in study outcome measures, a quantitative analysis of data was deemed inappropriate. A qualitative summary of the data was consequently completed. RESULTS: Thirteen reports were systematically reviewed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of statins in the pretreatment of acute ischemic stroke. Pretreatment with statins was found to reduce the recurrence of stroke and to result in more favorable outcomes for patients. The beneficial effects of prior statin therapy in acute ischemic stroke were shown to be especially profound in whites, diabetics, elderly patients with hypertension and other vascular diseases, and in patients with ideal low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels. There were few incidences of adverse reactions with statin pretreatment, most of which were not statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: Pretreatment with statins was associated with a favorable outcome in acute ischemic stroke, with few incidences of adverse reactions.			2010				438
Therapeutic acetaminophen is not associated with liver injury in children: a systematic review		Lavonas, E. J., Reynolds, K. M. and Dart, R. C.				pediatrics	pediatrics	"BACKGROUND: Concern exists about the potential for liver injury with therapeutic dosing of acetaminophen in children. OBJECTIVE: We systematically reviewed the medical literature to determine the rate at which liver injury has been reported for children prescribed therapeutic doses of acetaminophen (?75 mg/kg per day orally or intravenously or ?100 mg/kg per day rectally). METHODS: We searched Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials to locate all studies in which acetaminophen was administered to a defined pediatric population for ?24 hours and for all case reports of liver injury after therapeutic acetaminophen dosing. Trained reviewers extracted data from each report. Major and minor hepatic adverse events (AEs) were defined prospectively. Causality was assessed by using the Naranjo algorithm. RESULTS: A total of 62 studies that enrolled 32,414 children were included. No child (0% [95% confidence interval: 0.000-0.009]) was reported to have exhibited signs or symptoms of liver disease, to have received an antidote or transplantation, or to have died. Major or minor hepatic AEs were reported for 10 children (0.031% [95% confidence interval: 0.015-0.057]). The highest transaminase value reported was 600 IU/L. Naranjo scores (2-3) suggested ""possible"" causation. Twenty-two case reports were identified. In 9 cases, the Naranjo score suggested ""probable"" causation (5-6). CONCLUSIONS: Hepatoxicity after therapeutic dosing of acetaminophen in children is rarely reported in defined-population studies. Case reports suggest that this phenomenon may occur, but few reports contain sufficient data to support a probable causal relationship."			2010				444
Real-time kinematic, temporospatial, and kinetic biofeedback during gait retraining in patients: a systematic review		Tate, J. J. and Milner, C. E.				physical therapy	physical therapy	Background Biofeedback has been used in rehabilitation settings for gait retraining. PURPOSE: /b> The purpose of this review was to summarize and synthesize the findings of studies involving real-time kinematic, temporospatial, and kinetic biofeedback. The goal was to provide a general overview of the effectiveness of these forms of biofeedback in treating gait abnormalities. Data Sources Articles were identified through searches of the following databases: MEDLINE, CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature), and Cochrane Central Register for Controlled Trials. All searches were limited to the English language and encompassed the period from 1965 to November 2007. Study Selection Titles and abstracts were screened to identify studies that met the following requirements: the study included the use of kinematic, temporospatial, or kinetic biofeedback during gait training, and the population of interest showed abnormal movement patterns as a result of a pathology or injury. Data Extraction All articles that met the inclusion criteria were assessed by use of the Methodological Index for Nonrandomized Studies. Data Synthesis Seven articles met the inclusion criteria and were included in the review. Effect sizes were calculated for the primary outcome variables for all studies that provided enough data. Effect sizes generally suggested moderate to large treatment effects for all methods of biofeedback during practice. Limitations Several of the studies lacked adequate randomization; therefore, readers should exercise caution when interpreting authors' conclusions. CONCLUSIONS:/b> Each biofeedback method appeared to result in moderate to large treatment effects immediately after treatment. However, it is unknown whether the effects were maintained. Future studies should ensure adequate randomization of participants and implementation of motor learning concepts and should include retention testing to assess the long-term success of biofeedback and outcome measures capable of demonstrating coordinative changes in gait and improvement in function.			2010				802
Long-term health-related and economic consequences of short-term outcomes in evaluation of perinatal interventions		Teune, M. J., van Wassenaer, A. G., Mol, B. W. and Opmeer, B. C.				bmc pregnancy and childbirth	bmc pregnancy and childbirth	BACKGROUND: Many perinatal interventions are performed to improve long-term neonatal outcome. To evaluate the long-term effect of a perinatal intervention follow-up of the child after discharge from the hospital is necessary because serious sequelae from perinatal complications frequently manifest themselves only after several years. However, long-term follow-up is time-consuming, is not in the awareness of obstetricians, is expensive and falls outside the funding-period of most obstetric studies. Consequently, short-term outcomes are often reported instead of the primary long-term end-point. With this project, we will assess the current state of affairs concerning follow-up after obstetric RCTs and we will develop multivariable prediction models for different long-term health outcomes. Furthermore, we would like to encourage other researchers participating in follow-up studies after large obstetric trials (> 350 women) to inform us about their studies so that we can include their follow-up study in our systematic review. We would invite these researchers also to join our effort and to collaborate with us on the external validation of our prediction models. METHODS/DESIGN: A systematic review of neonatal follow-up after obstetric studies will be performed. All reviews of the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth group will be assessed for reviews on interventions that aimed to improve neonatal outcome. Reviews on interventions primary looking at other aspects than neonatal outcome such as labour progress will also be included when these interventions can change the outcome of the neonate on the short or long-term. Our review will be limited to RCTs with more than 350 women. Information that will be extracted from these RCTs will address whether, how and for how long follow-up has been performed. However, in many cases long-term follow-up of the infants will not be feasible. An alternative solution to limited follow-up could be to develop prediction models to estimate long-term health outcomes of the newborn based on specific perinatal outcomes and other covariates. For the development of multivariable prediction models for several health outcomes, we will use data available from a Dutch cohort study of preterm (< 32 weeks) and/or small for gestational age infants (< 1500 g). These infants were born in The Netherlands in 1983 and followed until they reached the age of 19. DISCUSSION: The systematic review will provide insight in the extent and methods used for follow-up assessments after obstetric RCTs in the past. The prediction models can be used by future studies to extrapolate short-term outcomes to a long-term horizon or to indicate for which neonates long-term follow-up is required, as their outcomes (either absence or presence of sequelae) cannot be adequately predicted from short-term outcomes and clinical background characteristics.			2010				810
Interventions to Improve Parental Communication About Sex: A Systematic Review		Akers, A. Y., Holland, C. L. and Bost, J.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: The relative effectiveness of interventions to improve parental communication with adolescents about sex is not known. OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness and mÃ©thodologie quality of interventions for improving parental communication with adolescents about sex. METHODS: We searched 6 databases: OVID/Medline, Psychlnfo, ERIC, Cochrane Review, Communication and Mass Media, and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature. We included studies published between 1980 and July 2010 in peer-reviewed English-language journals that targeted US parents of adolescents aged 11 to 18 years, used an experimental or quasi-experimental design, included a control group, and had a pretest/posttest design. We abstracted data on multiple communication outcomes defined by the integrative conceptual model (communication frequency, content, skills, intentions, self- efficacy, perceived environmental barriers/facilitators, perceived social norms, attitudes, outcome expectations, knowledge, and beliefs). Methodologie quality was assessed using the 11-item mÃ©thodologie quality score. RESULTS: Twelve studies met inclusion criteria. Compared with controls, parents who participated in these interventions experienced improvements in multiple communication domains including the frequency, quality, intentions, comfort, and self-efficacy for communicating. We noted no effects on parental attitudes toward communicating or the outcomes they expected to occur as a result of communicating. Four studies were of high quality, 7 were of medium quality, and 1 was of lower quality. CONCLUSIONS: Our review was limited by the lack of standardized measures for assessing parental communication. Still, interventions for improving parent-adolescent sex communication are well designed and have some targeted effects. Wider dissemination could augment efforts by schools, clinicians, and health educators. Pediatrics 2011; 127:494-510			2011				1637
Improving the transition between paediatric and adult healthcare: a systematic review		Crowley, R., Wolfe, I., Lock, K. and McKee, M.				archives of disease in childhood	archives of disease in childhood	Introduction The transition between paediatric and adult care for young people with chronic illness or disability is often poorly managed, with adverse consequences for health. Although many agree that adolescent services need to be improved, there is little empirical data on which policies can be based. Objectives To systematically review the evidence of effectiveness of transitional care programmes in young people aged 11-25 with chronic illness (physical or mental) or disability, and identify their successful components. Design A systematic literature review in July 2010 of studies which consistently evaluated health outcomes following transition programmes, either by comparison with a control group or by measurement pre-intervention and post-intervention. Results 10 studies met the inclusion criteria, six of which showed statistically significant improvements in outcomes. Descriptive analysis identified three broad categories of intervention, directed at: the patient (educational programmes, skills training); staffing (named transition co-ordinators, joint clinics run by paediatric and adult physicians); and service delivery (separate young adult clinics, out of hours phone support, enhanced follow-up). The conditions involved varied (eg, cystic fibrosis, diabetes mellitus), and outcome measures varied accordingly. All six interventions that resulted in significant improvements were in studies of patients with diabetes mellitus, with glycosylated haemoglobin level, acute and chronic complications, and rates of follow-up and screening used as outcome measures. Conclusions The most commonly used strategies in successful programmes were patient education and specific transition clinics (either jointly staffed by paediatric and adult physicians or dedicated young adult clinics within adult services). It is not clear how generalisable these successful studies in diabetes mellitus will be to other conditions.			2011				1246
Inhaled nitric oxide in preterm infants: a systematic review		Donohue, P. K., Gilmore, M. M., Cristofalo, E., Wilson, R. F., Weiner, J. Z., Lau, B. D., Robinson, K. A. and Allen, M. C.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: Studies of the efficacy of inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) to prevent or treat respiratory failure in preterm infants have had variable and contradictory findings. OBJECTIVES: To systematically review the evidence on the use of iNO in infants born at ? 34 weeks' gestation who receive respiratory support. METHODS: Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Studies, PsycInfo, ClinicalTrials.gov, and proceedings of the 2009 and 2010 Pediatric Academic Societies meetings were searched in June 2010. Additional studies from reference lists of eligible articles, relevant reviews, and technical experts were considered. Two investigators independently screened search results and abstracted data from eligible articles. We focus here on mortality, bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), the composite outcome of death or BPD, and neurodevelopmental impairment. RESULTS: Fourteen randomized controlled trials, 7 follow-up studies, and 1 observational study were eligible for inclusion. Mortality rates in the NICU did not differ for infants treated with iNO compared with controls (risk ratio [RR]: 0.97 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.82-1.15]). BPD at 36 weeks for iNO and control groups also did not differ for survivors (RR: 0.93 [95% CI: 0.86-1.003]). A small difference was found in favor of iNO in the composite outcome of death or BPD (RR: 0.93 [95% CI: 0.87-0.99]). There was no evidence to suggest a difference in the incidence of cerebral palsy (RR: 1.36 [95% CI: 0.88-2.10]), neurodevelopmental impairment (RR: 0.91 [95% CI: 0.77-1.12]), or cognitive impairment (RR: 0.72 [95% CI: 0.35-1.45]). CONCLUSIONS: There was a 7% reduction in the risk of the composite outcome of death or BPD at 36 weeks for infants treated with iNO compared with controls but no reduction in death alone or BPD. There is currently no evidence to support the use of iNO in preterm infants with respiratory failure outside the context of rigorously conducted randomized clinical trials.			2011				1613
Dendritic cell based tumor vaccination in prostate and renal cell cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Draube, A., Klein-González, N., Mattheus, S., Brillant, C., Hellmich, M., Engert, A. and von Bergwelt-Baildon, M.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: More than 200 clinical trials have been performed using dendritic cells (DC) as cellular adjuvants in cancer. Yet the key question whether there is a link between immune and clinical response remains unanswered. Prostate and renal cell cancer (RCC) have been extensively studied for DC-based immunotherapeutic interventions and were therefore chosen to address the above question by means of a systematic review and meta-analysis. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Data was obtained after a systematic literature search from clinical trials that enrolled at least 6 patients. Individual patient data meta-analysis was performed by means of conditional logistic regression grouped by study. Twenty nine trials involving a total of 906 patients were identified in prostate cancer (17) and RCC (12). Objective response rates were 7.7% in prostate cancer and 12.7% in RCC. The combined percentages of objective responses and stable diseases (SD) amounted to a clinical benefit rate (CBR) of 54% in prostate cancer and 48% in RCC. Meta-analysis of individual patient data (n?=?403) revealed the cellular immune response to have a significant influence on CBR, both in prostate cancer (OR 10.6, 95% CI 2.5-44.1) and in RCC (OR 8.4, 95% CI 1.3-53.0). Furthermore, DC dose was found to have a significant influence on CBR in both entities. Finally, for the larger cohort of prostate cancer patients, an influence of DC maturity and DC subtype (density enriched versus monocyte derived DC) as well as access to draining lymph nodes on clinical outcome could be demonstrated. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: As a 'proof of principle' a statistically significant effect of DC-mediated cellular immune response and of DC dose on CBR could be demonstrated. Further findings concerning vaccine composition, quality control, and the effect of DC maturation status are relevant for the immunological development of DC-based vaccines.			2011				1222
Vitamin A and retinoid derivatives for lung cancer: a systematic review and meta analysis		Fritz, H., Kennedy, D., Fergusson, D., Fernandes, R., Doucette, S., Cooley, K., Seely, A., Sagar, S., Wong, R. and Seely, D.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Despite reported antiproliferative activity of vitamin A and its common use for cancer, there is no comprehensive synthesis of its safety and efficacy in lung cancers. To address this issue we conducted a systematic review of the safety and efficacy of vitamin A for the treatment and prevention of lung cancers. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Two independent reviewers searched six electronic databases from inception to July 2009 for clinical, observational, and preclinical evidence pertaining to the safety and efficacy of vitamin A and related retinoids for lung cancers. 248 studies were included for full review and analysis. Five RCTs assessed treatment of lung cancers, three assessed primary prevention, and three looked at secondary prevention of lung cancers. Five surrogate studies, 26 phase I/II, 32 observational, and 67 preclinical studies were also included. 107 studies were included for interactions between vitamin A and chemo- or radiation-therapy. Although some studies demonstrated benefits, there was insufficient evidence overall to support the use of vitamin A or related retinoids for the treatment or prevention of lung cancers. Retinyl palmitate combined with beta carotene increased risk of lung cancer in smokers in the large CARET trial. Pooling of three studies pertaining to treatment and three studies on secondary prevention revealed no significant effects on response rate, second primary tumor, recurrence, 5-year survival, and mortality. There was a small improvement in event free survival associated with vitamin A compared to controls, RR 1.24 (95% CI 1.13-1.35). The synthetic rexinoid bexarotene increased survival significantly among a subset of patients in two RCTs (p<0.014, <0.087). CONCLUSIONS: There is a lack of evidence to support the use of naturally occurring retinoids for the treatment and prevention of lung cancers. The rexinoid bexarotene may hold promise for use among a subset of patients, and deserves further study.			2011				1233
The effectiveness of antenatal care programmes to reduce infant mortality and preterm birth in socially disadvantaged and vulnerable women in high-income countries: a systematic review		Hollowell, J., Oakley, L., Kurinczuk, J. J., Brocklehurst, P. and Gray, R.				bmc pregnancy and childbirth	bmc pregnancy and childbirth	BACKGROUND: Infant mortality has shown a steady decline in recent years but a marked socioeconomic gradient persists. Antenatal care is generally thought to be an effective method of improving pregnancy outcomes, but the effectiveness of specific antenatal care programmes as a means of reducing infant mortality in socioeconomically disadvantaged and vulnerable groups of women has not been rigorously evaluated. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review, focusing on evidence from high income countries, to evaluate the effectiveness of alternative models of organising or delivering antenatal care to disadvantaged and vulnerable groups of women vs. standard antenatal care. We searched Medline, Embase, Cinahl, PsychINFO, HMIC, CENTRAL, DARE, MIDIRS and a number of online resources to identify relevant randomised and observational studies. We assessed effects on infant mortality and its major medical causes (preterm birth, congenital anomalies and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS)) RESULTS: We identified 36 distinct eligible studies covering a wide range of interventions, including group antenatal care, clinic-based augmented care, teenage clinics, prenatal substance abuse programmes, home visiting programmes, maternal care coordination and nutritional programmes. Fifteen studies had adequate internal validity: of these, only one was considered to demonstrate a beneficial effect on an outcome of interest. Six interventions were considered 'promising'. CONCLUSIONS: There was insufficient evidence of adequate quality to recommend routine implementation of any of the programmes as a means of reducing infant mortality in disadvantaged/vulnerable women. Several interventions merit further more rigorous evaluation.			2011				1571
Network meta-analysis of indomethacin versus ibuprofen versus placebo for PDA in preterm infants		Jones, L. J., Craven, P. D., Attia, J., Thakkinstian, A. and Wright, I.				archives of disease in childhood. fetal and neonatal edition	archives of disease in childhood. fetal and neonatal edition	Objectives To evaluate the effects of indomethacin or ibuprofen compared with placebo on closure, morbidity and mortality in preterm infants <37 weeks' gestation with echocardiographically and/or clinically important patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) at >24 h of life. Data sources MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, CINAHL, Cochrane Library, clinicaltrials.gov, controlled-trials.com, American Pediatric and European Paediatric Research Societies and Effective Care of the Newborn Infant. Review methods Systematic review with network meta-analysis of randomised studies comparing intravenous indomethacin, ibuprofen or placebo for PDA in preterm infants at >24 h of life. Results Ten trials compared intravenous indomethacin versus intravenous ibuprofen, nine intravenous indomethacin versus placebo and one intravenous ibuprofen versus placebo. Both intravenous indomethacin (pooled RR 2.39 (95% CI 2.05 to 2.78)) and intravenous ibuprofen (RR 2.40 (95% CI 2.03 to 2.84)) closed a PDA more effectively than placebo. Intravenous ibuprofen was associated with approximately 30% greater risk of chronic lung disease than intravenous indomethacin (RR 1.28 (95% CI 1.03 to 1.60)) or placebo (RR 1.29 (95% CI 0.99 to 1.70)). Differences in risk or benefit were not significant between any combination of intravenous indomethacin, intravenous ibuprofen or placebo groups for intraventricular haemorrhage, necrotising enterocolitis and death. Reporting on neurological outcomes was insufficient for pooling. Conclusions Intravenous indomethacin or ibuprofen administered to preterm infants for PDA at >24 h of life promoted ductal closure, but other short-term benefits were not seen. Treatment with intravenous ibuprofen may increase the risk of chronic lung disease. Good-quality evidence of treatment effect on morbidity, mortality and improved neurodevelopment is urgently needed.			2011				2315
Systematic review on the treatment of pentoxifylline in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease		Li, W., Zheng, L., Sheng, C., Cheng, X., Qing, L. and Qu, S.				lipids in health and disease	lipids in health and disease	BACKGROUND: As an anti-TNF agent that targets inflammatory process directly, Pentoxifylline has been investigated for treatment of NASH in individual studies and pilot trials for years. We summarized the available information and generating hypotheses for future research. DATA SOURCES: Google, Cochrane, MEDLINE, and EMBASE and the Chinese Biomedical data bases for studies restricted to pentoxifylline treatment in humans with NAFLD in all languages until June 2010. Six studies (2 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials; 4 prospective cohort studies) extracted from 11604 references. RESULTS: Pentoxifylline-treated patients showed a significant decrease AST (n=37, P=0.01) and ALT (n=50, P=0.03), but no significant effect on IL-6 (n=36, P=0.33) and TNF-? (n=68, P=0.26) compared with Placebo or UDCA-controlled groups. Improvement in one or more histological variables was reported in two trails, only 1 study showed a reduction in of one or two points in fibrosis stage. LIMITATIONS: The trails did not consistently report all of the outcomes of interest. Sample sizes (117 patients totally) were small and only 2 out of 6 studies had a randomized, controlled design. CONCLUSION: Pentoxifylline reduce AST and ALT levels and may improve liver histological scores in patients with NALFD/NASH, but did not appear to affect cytokines. Large, prospective, and well-designed randomized, controlled studies are needed to address this issue. Novel therapeutic targets for activation of inflammatory signaling pathways by fat also merit investigation.			2011				1758
Efficacy and safety of prophylactic vaccines against cervical HPV infection and diseases among women: a systematic review & meta-analysis		Lu, B., Kumar, A., Castellsagué, X. and Giuliano, A. R.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess efficacy and safety of prophylactic HPV vaccines against cervical cancer precursor events in women. METHODS: Randomized-controlled trials of HPV vaccines were identified from MEDLINE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, conference abstracts and references of identified studies, and assessed by two independent reviewers. Efficacy data were synthesized using fixed-effect models, and evaluated for heterogeneity using I2 statistic. RESULTS: Seven unique trials enrolling 44,142 females were included. The fixed-effect Relative Risk (RR) and 95% confidence intervals were 0.04 (0.01-0.11) and 0.10 (0.03-0.38) for HPV-16 and HPV 18-related CIN2+ in the per-protocol populations (PPP). The corresponding RR was 0.47 (0.36-0.61) and 0.16 (0.08-0.34) in the intention-to-treat populations (ITT). Efficacy against CIN1+ was similar in scale in favor of vaccine. Overall vaccines were highly efficacious against 6-month persistent infection with HPV 16 and 18, both in the PPP cohort (RR: 0.06 [0.04-0.09] and 0.05 [0.03-0.09], respectively), and the ITT cohorts (RR: 0.15 [0.10-0.23] and 0.24 [0.14-0.42], respectively). There was limited prophylactic effect against CIN2+ and 6-month persistent infections associated with non-vaccine oncogenic HPV types. The risk of serious adverse events (RR: 1.00, 0.91-1.09) or vaccine-related serious adverse events (RR: 1.82; 0.79-4.20) did not differ significantly between vaccine and control groups. Data on abnormal pregnancy outcomes were underreported. CONCLUSIONS: Prophylactic HPV vaccines are safe, well tolerated, and highly efficacious in preventing persistent infections and cervical diseases associated with vaccine-HPV types among young females. However, long-term efficacy and safety needs to be addressed in future trials.			2011				1528
A systematic review of medical treatments for children with autism spectrum disorders		McPheeters, M. L., Warren, Z., Sathe, N., Bruzek, J. L., Krishnaswami, S., Jerome, R. N. and Veenstra-Vanderweele, J.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: As many as 1 in every 110 children in the United States has an autism spectrum disorder (ASD). Many medical treatments for ASDs have been proposed and studied, but there is currently no consensus regarding which interventions are most effective. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review evidence regarding medical treatments for children aged 12 years and younger with ASDs. METHODS: We searched the Medline, PsycInfo, and ERIC (Education Resources Information Center) databases from 2000 to May 2010, regulatory data for approved medications, and reference lists of included articles. Two reviewers independently assessed each study against predetermined inclusion/exclusion criteria. Studies of secretin were not included in this review. Two reviewers independently extracted data regarding participant and intervention characteristics, assessment techniques, and outcomes and assigned overall quality and strength-of-evidence ratings on the basis of predetermined criteria. RESULTS: Evidence supports the benefit of risperidone and aripiprazole for challenging and repetitive behaviors in children with ASDs. Evidence also supports significant adverse effects of these medications. Insufficient strength of evidence is present to evaluate the benefits or adverse effects for any other medical treatments for ASDs, including serotonin-reuptake inhibitors and stimulant medications. CONCLUSIONS: Although many children with ASDs are currently treated with medical interventions, strikingly little evidence exists to support benefit for most treatments. Risperidone and aripiprazole have shown benefit for challenging and repetitive behaviors, but associated adverse effects limit their use to patients with severe impairment or risk of injury.			2011				1805
Caries-preventive effect of glass ionomer and resin-based fissure sealants on permanent teeth: An update of systematic review evidence		Mickenautsch, S. and Yengopal, V.				bmc research notes	bmc research notes	BACKGROUND: This article constitutes a partial update of the original systematic review evidence by Yengopal et al. from 15 January 2008 (published in the Journal of Oral Science in 2009) with primary focus on research quality in regard to bias risk in trials. Its aim is to update the existing systematic review evidence from the English literature as to whether caries occurrence on pits and fissures of teeth sealed with either GIC or resin is the same. METHODS: In addition to the 12 trials included during the original systematic review, 5 new trials were identified during the database search (up to 26 August 2010) and 2 further trials were included from a hand search and reference check. Of these, 3 trials were excluded and 16 were accepted for data extraction and quality assessment. The quality of accepted trials was assessed, using updated quality criteria, and the risk of bias was investigated in more depth than previously reported. In addition, the focus of quantitative synthesis was shifted to single datasets that were extracted from the accepted trials. RESULTS: Twenty-six dichotomous and 4 continuous datasets were extracted. Meta-analysis and cumulative meta-analysis were used in combining clinically homogenous datasets. The overall outcome of the computed datasets suggest no difference between the caries-preventive effects of GIC- and resin-based fissure sealants. CONCLUSIONS: This overall outcome is in agreement with the conclusions of the original systematic review. Although the findings of the trials identified in this update may be considered to be less affected by attrition- and publication bias, their risk of selection- and detection-/performance bias is high. Thus, verification of the currently available results requires further high quality randomised control trials.			2011				1175
Absence of carious lesions at margins of glass-ionomer cement and amalgam restorations: An update of systematic review evidence		Mickenautsch, S. and Yengopal, V.				bmc research notes	bmc research notes	BACKGROUND: This article aims to update the existing systematic review evidence elicited by Mickenautsch et al. up to 18 January 2008 (published in the European Journal of Paediatric Dentistry in 2009) and addressing the review question of whether, in the same dentition and same cavity class, glass-ionomer cement (GIC) restored cavities show less recurrent carious lesions on cavity margins than cavities restored with amalgam. METHODS: The systematic literature search was extended beyond the original search date and a further hand-search and reference check was done. The quality of accepted trials was assessed, using updated quality criteria, and the risk of bias was investigated in more depth than previously reported. In addition, the focus of quantitative synthesis was shifted to single datasets extracted from the accepted trials. RESULTS: The database search (up to 10 August 2010) identified 1 new trial, in addition to the 9 included in the original systematic review, and 11 further trials were included after a hand-search and reference check. Of these 21 trials, 11 were excluded and 10 were accepted for data extraction and quality assessment. Thirteen dichotomous datasets of primary outcomes and 4 datasets with secondary outcomes were extracted. Meta-analysis and cumulative meta-analysis were used in combining clinically homogenous datasets. The overall results of the computed datasets suggest that GIC has a higher caries-preventive effect than amalgam for restorations in permanent teeth. No difference was found for restorations in the primary dentition. CONCLUSION: This outcome is in agreement with the conclusions of the original systematic review. Although the findings of the trials identified in this update may be considered to be less affected by attrition- and publication bias, their risk of selection- and detection/performance bias is high. Thus, verification of the currently available results requires further high-quality randomised control trials.			2011				1176
Maternal health interventions in resource limited countries: a systematic review of packages, impacts and factors for change		Nyamtema, A. S., Urassa, D. P. and van Roosmalen, J.				bmc pregnancy and childbirth	bmc pregnancy and childbirth	BACKGROUND: The burden of maternal mortality in resource limited countries is still huge despite being at the top of the global public health agenda for over the last 20 years. We systematically reviewed the impacts of interventions on maternal health and factors for change in these countries. METHODS: A systematic review was carried out using the guidelines for Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA). Articles published in the English language reporting on implementation of interventions, their impacts and underlying factors for maternal health in resource limited countries in the past 23 years were searched from PubMed, Popline, African Index Medicus, internet sources including reproductive health gateway and Google, hand-searching, reference lists and grey literature. RESULTS: Out of a total of 5084 articles resulting from the search only 58 qualified for systematic review. Programs integrating multiple interventions were more likely to have significant positive impacts on maternal outcomes. Training in emergency obstetric care (EmOC), placement of care providers, refurbishment of existing health facility infrastructure and improved supply of drugs, consumables and equipment for obstetric care were the most frequent interventions integrated in 52%-65% of all 54 reviewed programs. Statistically significant reduction of maternal mortality ratio and case fatality rate were reported in 55% and 40% of the programs respectively. Births in EmOC facilities and caesarean section rates increased significantly in 71%-75% of programs using these indicators. Insufficient implementation of evidence-based interventions in resources limited countries was closely linked to a lack of national resources, leadership skills and end-users factors. CONCLUSIONS: This article presents a list of evidenced-based packages of interventions for maternal health, their impacts and factors for change in resource limited countries. It indicates that no single magic bullet intervention exists for reduction of maternal mortality and that all interventional programs should be integrated in order to bring significant changes. State leaders and key actors in the health sectors in these countries and the international community are proposed to translate the lessons learnt into actions and intensify efforts in order to achieve the goals set for maternal health.			2011				1438
Interventions encouraging the use of systematic reviews in clinical decision-making: a systematic review		Perrier, L., Mrklas, K., Shepperd, S., Dobbins, M., McKibbon, K. A. and Straus, S. E.				journal of general internal medicine	journal of general internal medicine	BACKGROUND: Systematic reviews have the potential to inform clinical decisions, yet little is known about the impact of interventions on increasing the use of systematic reviews in clinical decision-making. PURPOSE: To systematically review the evidence on the impact of interventions for seeking, appraising, and applying evidence from systematic reviews in decision-making by clinicians. DATA SOURCES: Medline, EMBASE, CINAHL, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and LISA were searched from the earliest date available until July 2009. STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Two independent reviewers selected studies for inclusion if the intervention intended to increase seeking, appraising, or applying evidence from systematic reviews by a clinician. Information about the study population, features of each intervention, methods used to measure the use of systematic reviews and those used to measure professional performance or health care outcomes, existence and use of statistical tests, study outcomes, and comparative data were extracted. DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 8,104 titles and abstracts were reviewed, leading to retrieval of 189 full-text articles for assessment; five of these studies met all inclusion criteria. All five studies reported on professional performance behavior; none reported on patient health outcomes. One study reported positive outcomes in improving preventive care. Three studies focused on obstetrical care, with two reporting no impact on professional practice change, and one study reporting increases in the use of prophylactic oxytocin and episiotomy. One study found no improvement in the sealant rate of newly erupted molars among dentists in Scotland. LIMITATIONS: The small number of studies available for examination indicates the difficulty in summarizing and identifying key aspects in successful strategies that encourage clinicians to use systematic reviews in decision-making. Other concerns lay in selective reporting and lack of blinding during data collection. CONCLUSIONS: The limited empirical data render the strength of evidence weak for the effectiveness and types of interventions that encourage clinicians to use systematic reviews in clinical decision making.			2011				946
Nutritional Supplements and Other Complementary Medicines for Infantile Colic: A Systematic Review		Perry, R., Hunt, K. and Ernst, E.				pediatrics	pediatrics	BACKGROUND: Complementary and alternative medicines often are advocated for infantile colic, yet there has been no synthesis of the evidence to inform current practice about their use. OBJECTIVE: To critically evaluate all randomized clinical trials of nutritional supplements and other complementary and alternative medicines as a treatment for infantile colic. METHODS: Five electronic databases were searched from their inception to February 201 Oto identify all relevant randomized clinical trials of complementary and alternative medicines and supplements for infantile colic. Reference lists of retrieved articles were hand searched. Data were extracted by two independent reviewers, and methodological quality was assessed using the Jadad score and key aspects of the Cochrane risk of bias. RESULTS: Fifteen randomized clinical trials met the inclusion criteria and were included. Thirteen studies were placebo controlled. Eight were of good methodological quality. Eleven trials indicated a significant result in favor of complementary and alternative medicines. However, none of these randomized clinical trials were without flaws. Independent replications were missing for most modalities. CONCLUSIONS: Some encouraging results exist for fennel extract, mixed herbal tea, and sugar solutions, although it has to be stressed that all trials have major limitations. Thus, the notion that any form of complementary and alternative medicine is effective for infantile colic currently is not supported from the evidence from the included randomized clinical trials. Additional replications are needed before firm conclusions can be drawn.			2011				1855
Endovascular stenting of extracranial carotid and vertebral artery dissections: a systematic review of the literature		Pham, M. H., Rahme, R. J., Arnaout, O., Hurley, M. C., Bernstein, R. A., Batjer, H. H. and Bendok, B. R.				neurosurgery	neurosurgery	BACKGROUND: Carotid and vertebral artery dissections are a leading cause of stroke in young individuals. OBJECTIVE: To examine the published safety and efficacy of endovascular stenting for extracranial artery dissection. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of the literature to identify all cases of endovascular management of extracranial carotid and vertebral artery dissections. RESULTS: For carotid dissections, our review yielded 31 published reports including 140 patients (153 vessels). Reported etiologies were traumatic (48%, n = 64), spontaneous (37%, n = 49), and iatrogenic (16%, n = 21). The technical success rate of stenting was 99%, and the procedural complication rate was 1.3%. Mean angiographic follow-up was 12.8 months (range, 2-72 months) and revealed in-stent stenosis or occlusion in 2% of patients. Mean clinical follow-up was 17.7 months (range, 1-72 months), and neurological events were seen in 1.4% of patients. For vertebral artery dissections, our review revealed 8 reports including 10 patients (12 vessels). Etiologies were traumatic (60%, n = 6), spontaneous (20%, n = 2), and iatrogenic (20%, n = 2). There was a 100% technical success rate. The mean angiographic follow-up period was 7.5 months (range, 2-12 months). No new neurological events were reported during a mean clinical follow-up period of 26.4 months (range, 3-55 months). CONCLUSION: Endovascular management of extracranial arterial dissection continues to evolve. Current experience shows that this treatment option is safe and technically feasible. Prospective randomized trials compared with medical management are needed to further elucidate the role of stenting.			2011				1112
Alternative rehydration methods: a systematic review and lessons for resource-limited care		Rouhani, S., Meloney, L., Ahn, R., Nelson, B. D. and Burke, T. F.				pediatrics	pediatrics	OBJECTIVE: Dehydration is a significant threat to the health of children worldwide and a major cause of death in resource-scarce settings. Although multiple studies have revealed that oral and intravenous (IV) methods for rehydration in nonsevere dehydration are nearly equally effective, little is known about effectiveness beyond these 2 techniques. With this systematic review we analyzed the effectiveness of nonoral and nonintravenous methods of rehydration. METHODS: The Medline, Cochrane, Global Health, Embase, and CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature) databases were searched for articles on intraosseous (IO), nasogastric (NG), intraperitoneal (IP), subcutaneous (hypodermoclysis), and rectal (proctoclysis) rehydration through December 2009. Only human pediatric studies that included data on the effectiveness or complications of these methods were included. RESULTS: The search identified 38 articles that met the inclusion criteria: 12 articles on NG, 16 on IO, 7 on IP, 3 on subcutaneous, and none on rectal rehydration. NG rehydration was as effective as IV rehydration for moderate-to-severe dehydration. IO rehydration was effective and easy to obtain, although only 1 randomized trial was identified. IP rehydration had some benefit for moderate dehydration, although none of the trials had control groups. Limited data were available on subcutaneous rehydration, and only 1 case series showed benefit. CONCLUSIONS: NG rehydration should be considered second-line therapy, after oral rehydration, particularly in resource-limited environments. IO rehydration seems to be an effective alternative when IV access is not readily obtainable. Additional evidence is needed before IP and subcutaneous rehydration can be endorsed.			2011				1261
Systematic review of the literature on comparative effectiveness of antiviral treatments for chronic hepatitis B infection		Shamliyan, T. A., Johnson, J. R., MacDonald, R., Shaukat, A., Yuan, J. M., Kane, R. L. and Wilt, T. J.				journal of general internal medicine	journal of general internal medicine	OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the comparative effectiveness of antiviral drugs in adults with chronic hepatitis B monoinfection for evidence-based decision-making. METHODS: A systematic review of randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs) published in English. Results after interferon and nucleos(t)ides analog therapies were synthesized with random-effects meta-analyses and number needed to treat (NNT). RESULTS: Despite sustained improvements in selected biomarkers, no one drug regimen improved all intermediate outcomes. In 16 underpowered RCTs, drug treatments did not reduce mortality, liver cancer, or cirrhosis. Sustained HBV DNA clearance was achieved in one patient when two were treated with adefovir (NNT from 1 RCT=2 95%CI 1;2) or interferon alpha-2b (NNT from 2 RCTs=2 95%CI 2;4), 13 with lamivudine (NNT from 1 RCT=13 95%CI 7;1000), and 11 with peginterferon alpha-2a vs. lamivudine (NNT from 1 RCT=11 95%CI 7;25). Sustained HBeAg seroconversion was achieved in one patient when eight were treated with interferon alpha-2b (NNT from 2 RCTs=8 95%CI 5;33) or 10--with peginterferon alpha-2b vs. interferon alpha-2b (NNT from 1 RCT=10 95%CI 5;1000). Greater benefits and safety after entecavir vs. lamivudine or pegylated interferon alpha-2b vs. interferon alpha-2b require future investigation of clinical outcomes. Adverse events were common and more frequent after interferon. Treatment utilization for adverse effects is unknown. CONCLUSIONS: Individual clinical decisions should rely on comparative effectiveness and absolute rates of intermediate outcomes and adverse events. Future research should clarify the relationship of intermediate and clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness of drugs for evidence-based policy and clinical decisions.			2011				1378
Systematic review of safety and tolerability of a complex micronutrient formula used in mental health		Simpson, J. S., Crawford, S. G., Goldstein, E. T., Field, C., Burgess, E. and Kaplan, B. J.				bmc psychiatry	bmc psychiatry	BACKGROUND: Theoretically, consumption of complex, multinutrient formulations of vitamins and minerals should be safe, as most preparations contain primarily the nutrients that have been in the human diet for millennia, and at safe levels as defined by the Dietary Reference Intakes. However, the safety profile of commercial formulae may differ from foods because of the amounts and combinations of nutrients they contain. As these complex formulae are being studied and used clinically with increasing frequency, there is a need for direct evaluation of safety and tolerability. METHODS: All known safety and tolerability data collected on one complex nutrient formula was compiled and evaluated. RESULTS: Data were assembled from all the known published and unpublished studies for the complex formula with the largest amount of published research in mental health. Biological safety data from 144 children and adults were available from six sources: there were no occurrences of clinically meaningful negative outcomes/effects or abnormal blood tests that could be attributed to toxicity. Adverse event (AE) information from 157 children and adults was available from six studies employing the current version of this formula, and only minor, transitory reports of headache and nausea emerged. Only one of the studies permitted a direct comparison between micronutrient treatment and medication: none of the 88 pediatric and adult participants had any clinically meaningful abnormal laboratory values, but tolerability data in the group treated with micronutrients revealed significantly fewer AEs and less weight gain. CONCLUSIONS: This compilation of safety and tolerability data is reassuring with respect to the broad spectrum approach that employs complex nutrient formulae as a primary treatment.			2011				1814
Does prolonged ?-lactam infusions improve clinical outcomes compared to intermittent infusions? A meta-analysis and systematic review of randomized, controlled trials		Tamma, P. D., Putcha, N., Suh, Y. D., Van Arendonk, K. J. and Rinke, M. L.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: The emergence of multi-drug resistant Gram-negatives (MDRGNs) coupled with an alarming scarcity of new antibiotics has forced the optimization of the therapeutic potential of available antibiotics. To exploit the time above the minimum inhibitory concentration mechanism of ?-lactams, prolonging their infusion may improve outcomes. The primary objective of this meta-analysis was to determine if prolonged ?-lactam infusion resulted in decreased mortality and improved clinical cure compared to intermittent ?-lactam infusion. METHODS: Relevant studies were identified from searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CENTRAL. Heterogeneity was assessed qualitatively, in addition to I2 and Chi-square statistics. Pooled relative risks (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using Mantel-Haenszel random-effects models. RESULTS: Fourteen randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were included. Prolonged infusion ?-lactams were not associated with decreased mortality (n=982; RR 0.92; 95% CI:0.61-1.37) or clinical cure (n=1380; RR 1.00 95% CI:0.94-1.06) compared to intermittent infusions. Subgroup analysis for ?-lactam subclasses and equivalent total daily ?-lactam doses yielded similar results. Most studies had notable methodological flaws. CONCLUSIONS: No clinical advantage was observed for prolonged infusion ?-lactams. The limited number of studies with MDRGNs precluded evaluation of prolonged infusion of ?-lactams for this subgroup. A large, multicenter RCT with critically ill patients infected with MDRGNs is needed.			2011				1989
Systematic review of influenza resistance to the neuraminidase inhibitors		Thorlund, K., Awad, T., Boivin, G. and Thabane, L.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: Antivirals play a critical role in the prevention and the management of influenza. One class of antivirals, neuraminidase inhibitors (NAIs), is effective against all human influenza viruses. Currently there are two NAI drugs which are licensed worldwide: oseltamivir (Tamiflu®) and zanamivir (Relenza®); and two drugs which have received recent approval in Japan: peramivir and laninamivir. Until recently, the prevalence of antiviral resistance has been relatively low. However, almost all seasonal H1N1 strains that circulated in 2008-09 were resistant to oseltamivir whereas about 1% of tested 2009 pandemic H1N1 viruses were found to be resistant to oseltamivir. To date, no studies have demonstrated widespread resistance to zanamivir. It seems likely that the literature on antiviral resistance associated with oseltamivir as well as zanamivir is now sufficiently comprehensive to warrant a systematic review.The primary objectives were to systematically review the literature to determine the incidence of resistance to oseltamivir, zanamivir, and peramivir in different population groups as well as assess the clinical consequences of antiviral resistance. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE and EMBASE without language restrictions in September 2010 to identify studies reporting incidence of resistance to oseltamivir, zanamivir, and peramivir. We used forest plots and meta-analysis of incidence of antiviral resistance associated with the three NAIs. Subgroup analyses were done across a number of population groups. Meta-analysis was also performed to evaluate associations between antiviral resistance and clinical complications and symptoms. RESULTS: We identified 19 studies reporting incidence of antiviral resistance. Meta-analysis of 15 studies yielded a pooled incidence rate for oseltamivir resistance of 2.6% (95%CI 0.7% to 5.5%). The incidence rate for all zanamivir resistance studies was 0%. Only one study measured incidence of antiviral resistance among subjects given peramivir and was reported to be 0%. Subgroup analyses detected higher incidence rates among influenza A patients, especially for H1N1 subtype influenza. Considerable heterogeneity between studies precluded definite inferences about subgroup results for immunocompromised patients, in-patients, and children. A meta-analysis of 4 studies reporting association between oseltamivir-resistance and pneumonia yielded a statistically significant risk ratio of 4.2 (95% CI 1.3 to 13.1, p = 0.02). Oseltamivir-resistance was not statistically significantly associated with other clinical complications and symptoms. CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that that a substantial number of patients may become oseltamivir-resistant as a result of oseltamivir use, and that oseltamivir resistance may be significantly associated with pneumonia. In contrast, zanamivir resistance has been rarely reported to date.			2011				1024
Efficacy and safety of tunneled pleural catheters in adults with malignant pleural effusions: a systematic review		Van Meter, M. E., McKee, K. Y. and Kohlwes, R. J.				journal of general internal medicine	journal of general internal medicine	BACKGROUND: Malignant pleural effusions (MPE) are a frequent cause of dyspnea and discomfort at the end of cancer patients' lives. The tunneled indwelling pleural catheter (TIPC) was approved by the FDA in 1997 and has been investigated as a treatment for MPE. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review published data on the efficacy and safety of the TIPC for treatment of MPE. DESIGN: We searched the MEDLINE, EMBASE, and ISI Web of Science databases to identify studies published through October 2009 that reported outcomes in adult patients with MPE treated with a TIPC. Data were aggregated using summary statistics when outcomes were described in the same way among multiple primary studies. MAIN MEASURES: Symptomatic improvement and complications associated with use of the TIPC. KEY RESULTS: Nineteen studies with a total of 1,370 patients met criteria for inclusion in the review. Only one randomized study directly compared the TIPC with the current gold standard treatment, pleurodesis. All other studies were case series. Symptomatic improvement was reported in 628/657 patients (95.6%). Quality of life measurements were infrequently reported. Spontaneous pleurodesis occurred in 430/943 patients (45.6%). Serious complications were rare and included empyema in 33/1168 patients (2.8%), pneumothorax requiring a chest tube in 3/51 (5.9%), and unspecified pneumothorax in 17/439 (3.9%). Minor complications included cellulitis in 32/935 (3.4%), obstruction/clogging in 33/895 (3.7%) and unspecified malfunction of the catheter in 11/121 (9.1%). The use of the TIPC was without complication in 517/591 patients (87.5%). CONCLUSIONS: Based on low-quality evidence in the form of case series, the TIPC may improve symptoms for patients with MPE and does not appear to be associated with major complications. Prospective randomized studies comparing the TIPC to pleurodesis are needed before the TIPC can be definitively recommended as a first-line treatment of MPE.			2011				1909
A systematic review of early intensive intervention for autism spectrum disorders		Warren, Z., McPheeters, M. L., Sathe, N., Foss-Feig, J. H., Glasser, A. and Veenstra-Vanderweele, J.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: Early intensive behavioral and developmental interventions for young children with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) may enhance developmental outcomes. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review evidence regarding such interventions for children aged 12 and younger with ASDs. METHODS: We searched Medline, PsycINFO, and ERIC (Education Resources Information Center) from 2000 to May 2010. Two reviewers independently assessed studies against predetermined inclusion/exclusion criteria. Two reviewers independently extracted data regarding participant and intervention characteristics, assessment techniques, and outcomes and assigned overall quality and strength-of-evidence ratings using predetermined criteria. RESULTS: Thirty-four unique studies met inclusion criteria. Seventeen studies were case series; 2 were randomized controlled trials. We rated 1 study as good quality, 10 as fair quality, and 23 as poor quality. The strength of the evidence overall ranged from insufficient to low. Studies of University of California Los Angeles/Lovaas-based interventions and variants reported clinically significant gains in language and cognitive skills in some children, as did 1 randomized controlled trial of an early intensive developmental intervention approach (the Early Start Denver Model). Specific parent-training approaches yielded gains in short-term language function and some challenging behaviors. Data suggest that subgroups of children displayed more prominent gains across studies, but participant characteristics associated with greater gains are not well understood. CONCLUSIONS: Studies of Lovaas-based approaches and early intensive behavioral intervention variants and the Early Start Denver Model resulted in some improvements in cognitive performance, language skills, and adaptive behavior skills in some young children with ASDs, although the literature is limited by methodologic concerns.			2011				1818
Recipient outcomes after ABO-incompatible liver transplantation: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Wu, J., Ye, S., Xu, X., Xie, H., Zhou, L. and Zheng, S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: ABO-incompatible live transplantation (ILT) is not occasionally performed due to a relative high risk of graft failure. Knowledge of both graft and patient survival rate after ILT is essential for donor selection and therapeutic strategy. We systematically reviewed studies containing outcomes after ILT compared to that after ABO-compatible liver transplantation (CLT). METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We carried out a comprehensive search strategy on MEDLINE (1966-July 2010), EMBASE (1980-July 2010), Biosis Preview (1969-July 2010), Science Citation Index (1981-July 2010), Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (Cochrane Library, issue 7, 2010) and the National Institute of Health (July 2010). Two reviewers independently assessed the quality of each study and abstracted outcome data. Fourteen eligible studies were included which came from various medical centers all over the world. Meta-analysis results showed that no significantly statistical difference was found in pediatric graft survival rate, pediatric and adult patient survival rate between ILT and CLT group. In adult subgroup, the graft survival rate after ILT was significantly lower than that after CLT. The value of totally pooled OR was 0.64 (0.55, 0.74), 0.92 (0.62, 1.38) for graft survival rate and patient survival rate respectively. The whole complication incidence (including acute rejection and biliary complication) after ILT was higher than that after CLT, as the value of totally pooled OR was 3.02 (1.33, 6.85). Similarly, in acute rejection subgroup, the value of OR was 2.02 (1.01, 4.02). However, it was 4.08 (0.90, 18.51) in biliary complication subgroup. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: In our view, pediatric ILT has not been a contraindication anymore due to a similar graft and patient survival rate between ILT and CLT group. Though adult graft survival rate is not so satisfactory, ILT is undoubtedly life-saving under exigent condition. Most studies included in our analysis are observational researches. Larger scale of researches and Randomized-Control Studies are still needed.			2011				1693
Effect of early surgery, material, and method of flap preservation on cranioplasty infections: a systematic review		Yadla, S., Campbell, P. G., Chitale, R., Maltenfort, M. G., Jabbour, P. and Sharan, A. D.				neurosurgery	neurosurgery	BACKGROUND: Infection is a significant cause of morbidity with cranioplasty procedures. However, few studies have investigated the effect of specific surgical practices on cranioplasty infection. OBJECTIVE: To analyze the literature on the effect of early surgery (within 3 months of craniectomy), implant material, and method of flap preservation on cranioplasty infections, and to perform a subanalysis of the effect of early surgery on overall complications associated with cranioplasty. METHODS: A systematic search of the PubMed, Cochrane, SCOPUS, and CINAHL databases was conducted. Comparative studies that reported on timing of surgery, implant material (autograft vs allograft), or method of flap preservation (subcutaneous vs extracorporeal), and infection or complication rates were selected for detailed analysis. Pooled odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated for each analysis. RESULTS: Eighteen articles (2254 data points) met criteria for inclusion. There was no difference in infection rates (OR, 1.35; 95% CI, 0.53-3.41; P = .53) or overall complication rates (OR, 0.57; 95% CI, 0.29-1.11; P = .10) between early or later surgery. Fourteen studies (n = 1582) compared infection rates between autograft and allograft materials; there was no difference in infection rates between the two (OR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.40-1.66; P = .57). There was no significant difference in infection rates between subcutaneous or extracorporeal preservation (OR, 0.35; 95% CI, 0.09-1.35; P = .13). CONCLUSION: Analysis of the best current evidence suggests that early surgery, implant material, and method of flap preservation have no effect on the rate of cranioplasty infections.			2011				1751
The effect of providing skilled birth attendance and emergency obstetric care in preventing stillbirths		Yakoob, M. Y., Ali, M. A., Ali, M. U., Imdad, A., Lawn, J. E., Van Den Broek, N. and Bhutta, Z. A.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Of the global burden of 2.6 million stillbirths, around 1.2 million occur during labour i.e. are intrapartum deaths. In low-/middle-income countries, a significant proportion of women give birth at home, usually in the absence of a skilled birth attendant. This review discusses the impact of skilled birth attendance (SBA) and the provision of Emergency Obstetric Care (EOC) on stillbirths and perinatal mortality. METHODS: A systematic literature search was performed on PubMed/MEDLINE, Cochrane Database and the WHO regional libraries. Data of all eligible studies were extracted into a standardized Excel sheet containing variables such as participants' characteristics, sample size, location, setting, blinding, allocation concealment, intervention and control details and limitations. We undertook a meta-analysis of the impact of SBA on stillbirths. Given the paucity of data from randomized trials or robust quasi-experimental designs, we undertook an expert Delphi consultation to determine impact estimates of provision of Basic and Comprehensive EOC on reducing stillbirths if there would be universal coverage (99%). RESULTS: The literature search yielded 871 hits. A total of 21 studies were selected for data abstraction. Our meta-analysis on community-based skilled birth attendance based on two before-after studies showed a 23% significant reduction in stillbirths (RR = 0.77; 95% CI: 0.69 - 0.85). The overall quality grade of available evidence for this intervention on stillbirths was 'moderate'. The Delphi process supported the estimated reduction in stillbirths by skilled attendance and experts further suggested that the provision of Basic EOC had the potential to avert intrapartum stillbirths by 45% and with provision of Comprehensive EOC this could be reduced by 75%. These estimates are conservative, consistent with historical trends in maternal and perinatal mortality from both developed and developing countries, and are recommended for inclusion in the Lives Saved Tool (LiST) model. CONCLUSIONS: Both Skilled Birth Attendance and Emergency/or Essential Obstetric Care have the potential to reduce the number of stillbirths seen globally. Further evidence is needed to be able to calculate an effect size.			2011				2486
Ciprofloxacin safety in paediatrics: a systematic review		Adefurin, A., Sammons, H., Jacqz-Aigrain, E. and Choonara, I.				archives of disease in childhood	archives of disease in childhood	Objective To determine the safety of ciprofloxacin in paediatric patients in relation to arthropathy, any other adverse events (AEs) and drug interactions. Methods A systematic search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, CENTRAL and bibliographies of relevant articles was carried out for all published articles, regardless of design, that involved the use of ciprofloxacin in any paediatric age group <=17 years. Only articles that reported on safety were included. Results 105 articles met the inclusion criteria and involved 16 184 paediatric patients. There were 1065 reported AEs (risk 7%, 95% CI 3.2% to 14.0%). The most frequent AEs were musculoskeletal AEs, abnormal liver function tests, nausea, changes in white blood cell counts and vomiting. There were six drug interactions (with aminophylline (4) and methotrexate (2)). The only drug related death occurred in a neonate who had an anaphylactic reaction. 258 musculoskeletal events occurred in 232 paediatric patients (risk 1.6%, 95% CI 0.9% to 2.6%). Arthralgia accounted for 50% of these. The age of occurrence of arthropathy ranged from 7 months to 17 years (median 10 years). All cases of arthropathy resolved or improved with management. One prospective controlled study estimated the risk of arthropathy as 9.3 (OR 95% CI 1.2 to 195). Pooled safety data of controlled trials in this review estimated the risk of arthropathy as 1.57 (OR 95% CI 1.26 to 1.97). Conclusion Musculoskeletal AEs occur due to ciprofloxacin use. However, these musculoskeletal events are reversible with management. It is recommended that further prospective controlled studies should be carried out to evaluate the safety of ciprofloxacin, with particular focus on the risk of arthropathy.			2011				938
Complementary and alternative medicine for patients with chronic fatigue syndrome: a systematic review		Alraek, T., Lee, M. S., Choi, T. Y., Cao, H. and Liu, J.				bmc complementary and alternative medicine	bmc complementary and alternative medicine	BACKGROUND: Throughout the world, patients with chronic diseases/illnesses use complementary and alternative medicines (CAM). The use of CAM is also substantial among patients with diseases/illnesses of unknown aetiology. Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), also termed myalgic encephalomyelitis (ME), is no exception. Hence, a systematic review of randomised controlled trials of CAM treatments in patients with CFS/ME was undertaken to summarise the existing evidence from RCTs of CAM treatments in this patient population. METHODS: Seventeen data sources were searched up to 13th August 2011. All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of any type of CAM therapy used for treating CFS were included, with the exception of acupuncture and complex herbal medicines; studies were included regardless of blinding. Controlled clinical trials, uncontrolled observational studies, and case studies were excluded. RESULTS: A total of 26 RCTs, which included 3,273 participants, met our inclusion criteria. The CAM therapy from the RCTs included the following: mind-body medicine, distant healing, massage, tuina and tai chi, homeopathy, ginseng, and dietary supplementation. Studies of qigong, massage and tuina were demonstrated to have positive effects, whereas distant healing failed to do so. Compared with placebo, homeopathy also had insufficient evidence of symptom improvement in CFS. Seventeen studies tested supplements for CFS. Most of the supplements failed to show beneficial effects for CFS, with the exception of NADH and magnesium. CONCLUSIONS: The results of our systematic review provide limited evidence for the effectiveness of CAM therapy in relieving symptoms of CFS. However, we are not able to draw firm conclusions concerning CAM therapy for CFS due to the limited number of RCTs for each therapy, the small sample size of each study and the high risk of bias in these trials. Further rigorous RCTs that focus on promising CAM therapies are warranted.			2011				1161
Integration of priority population, health and nutrition interventions into health systems: systematic review		Atun, R., de Jongh, T. E., Secci, F. V., Ohiri, K., Adeyi, O. and Car, J.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Objective of the study was to assess the effects of strategies to integrate targeted priority population, health and nutrition interventions into health systems on patient health outcomes and health system effectiveness and thus to compare integrated and non-integrated health programmes. METHODS: Systematic review using Cochrane methodology of analysing randomised trials, controlled before-and-after and interrupted time series studies. We defined specific strategies to search PubMed, CENTRAL and the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Group register, considered studies published from January 1998 until September 2008, and tracked references and citations. Two reviewers independently agreed on eligibility, with an additional arbiter as needed, and extracted information on outcomes: primary (improved health, financial protection, and user satisfaction) and secondary (improved population coverage, access to health services, efficiency, and quality) using standardised, pre-piloted forms. Two reviewers in the final stage of selection jointly assessed quality of all selected studies using the GRADE criteria. RESULTS: Of 8,274 citations identified 12 studies met inclusion criteria. Four studies compared the benefits of Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses in Tanzania and Bangladesh, showing improved care management and higher utilisation of health facilities at no additional cost. Eight studies focused on integrated delivery of mental health and substance abuse services in the United Kingdom and United States of America. Integrated service delivery resulted in better clinical outcomes and greater reduction of substance abuse in specific sub-groups of patients, with no significant difference found overall. Quality of care, patient satisfaction, and treatment engagement were higher in integrated delivery models. CONCLUSIONS: Targeted priority population health interventions we identified led to improved health outcomes, quality of care, patient satisfaction and access to care. Limited evidence with inconsistent findings across varied interventions in different settings means no general conclusions can be drawn on the benefits or disadvantages of integrated service delivery.			2011				1390
"The ""smoker's paradox"" in patients with acute coronary syndrome: a systematic review"		Aune, E., Røislien, J., Mathisen, M., Thelle, D. S. and Otterstad, J. E.				bmc medicine	bmc medicine	"BACKGROUND: Smokers have been shown to have lower mortality after acute coronary syndrome than non-smokers. This has been attributed to the younger age, lower co-morbidity, more aggressive treatment and lower risk profile of the smoker. Some studies, however, have used multivariate analyses to show a residual survival benefit for smokers; that is, the ""smoker's paradox"". The aim of this study was, therefore, to perform a systematic review of the literature and evidence surrounding the existence of the ""smoker's paradox"". METHODS: Relevant studies published by September 2010 were identified through literature searches using EMBASE (from 1980), MEDLINE (from 1963) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, with a combination of text words and subject headings used. English-language original articles were included if they presented data on hospitalised patients with defined acute coronary syndrome, reported at least in-hospital mortality, had a clear definition of smoking status (including ex-smokers), presented crude and adjusted mortality data with effect estimates, and had a study sample of > 100 smokers and > 100 non-smokers. Two investigators independently reviewed all titles and abstracts in order to identify potentially relevant articles, with any discrepancies resolved by repeated review and discussion. RESULTS: A total of 978 citations were identified, with 18 citations from 17 studies included thereafter. Six studies (one observational study, three registries and two randomised controlled trials on thrombolytic treatment) observed a ""smoker's paradox"". Between the 1980s and 1990s these studies enrolled patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) according to criteria similar to the World Health Organisation criteria from 1979. Among the remaining 11 studies not supporting the existence of the paradox, five studies represented patients undergoing contemporary management. CONCLUSION: The ""smoker's paradox"" was observed in some studies of AMI patients in the pre-thrombolytic and thrombolytic era, whereas no studies of a contemporary population with acute coronary syndrome have found evidence for such a paradox."			2011				1252
Influenza vaccination for immunocompromised patients: systematic review and meta-analysis from a public health policy perspective		Beck, C. R., McKenzie, B. C., Hashim, A. B., Harris, R. C., Zanuzdana, A., Agboado, G., Orton, E., Béchard-Evans, L., Morgan, G., Stevenson, C., Weston, R., Mukaigawara, M., Enstone, J., Augustine, G., Butt, M., Kim, S., Puleston, R., Dabke, G., Howard, R., O'Boyle, J., O'Brien, M., Ahyow, L., Denness, H., Farmer, S., Figureroa, J., Fisher, P., Greaves, F., Haroon, M., Haroon, S., Hird, C., Isba, R., Ishola, D. A., Kerac, M., Parish, V., Roberts, J., Rosser, J., Theaker, S., Wallace, D., Wigglesworth, N., Lingard, L., Vinogradova, Y., Horiuchi, H., Peñalver, J. and Nguyen-Van-Tam, J. S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Immunocompromised patients are vulnerable to severe or complicated influenza infection. Vaccination is widely recommended for this group. This systematic review and meta-analysis assesses influenza vaccination for immunocompromised patients in terms of preventing influenza-like illness and laboratory confirmed influenza, serological response and adverse events. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Electronic databases and grey literature were searched and records were screened against eligibility criteria. Data extraction and risk of bias assessments were performed in duplicate. Results were synthesised narratively and meta-analyses were conducted where feasible. Heterogeneity was assessed using I(2) and publication bias was assessed using Begg's funnel plot and Egger's regression test. Many of the 209 eligible studies included an unclear or high risk of bias. Meta-analyses showed a significant effect of preventing influenza-like illness (odds ratio [OR]=0.23; 95% confidence interval [CI]=0.16-0.34; p<0.001) and laboratory confirmed influenza infection (OR=0.15; 95% CI=0.03-0.63; p=0.01) through vaccinating immunocompromised patie nts compared to placebo or unvaccinated controls. We found no difference in the odds of influenza-like illness compared to vaccinated immunocompetent controls. The pooled odds of seroconversion were lower in vaccinated patients compared to immunocompetent controls for seasonal influenza A(H1N1), A(H3N2) and B. A similar trend was identified for seroprotection. Meta-analyses of seroconversion showed higher odds in vaccinated patients compared to placebo or unvaccinated controls, although this reached significance for influenza B only. Publication bias was not detected and narrative synthesis supported our findings. No consistent evidence of safety concerns was identified. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Infection prevention and control strategies should recommend vaccinating immunocompromised patients. Potential for bias and confounding and the presence of heterogeneity mean the evidence reviewed is generally weak, although the directions of effects are consistent. Areas for further research are identified.			2011				1370
Assessing the contribution of prescribing in primary care by nurses and professionals allied to medicine: a systematic review of literature		Bhanbhro, S., Drennan, V. M., Grant, R. and Harris, R.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	BACKGROUND: Safe and timely access to effective and appropriate medication through primary care settings is a major concern for all countries addressing both acute and chronic disease burdens. Legislation for nurses and other professionals allied to medicine to prescribe exists in a minority of countries, with more considering introducing legislation. Although there is variation in the range of medicines permitted to be prescribed, questions remain as to the contribution prescribing by nurses and professionals allied to medicine makes to the care of patients in primary care and what is the evidence on which clinicians, commissioners of services and policy makers can consider this innovation. METHODS: A integrative review of literature on non-medical prescribing in primary care was undertaken guided by dimensions of health care quality: effectiveness, acceptability, efficiency and access. RESULTS: 19 papers of 17 empirical studies were identified which provided evidence of patient outcome of non medical prescribing in primary care settings. The majority were undertaken in the UK with only one each from the USA, Canada, Botswana and Zimbabwe. Only two studies investigated clinical outcomes of non-medical prescribing. Seven papers reported on qualitative designs and four of these had fewer than ten participants. Most studies reported that non medical prescribing was widely accepted and viewed positively by patients and professionals. CONCLUSIONS: Primary health care is the setting where timely access to safe and appropriate medicines is most critical for the well-being of any population. The gradual growth over time of legislative authority and in the numbers of non-medical prescribers, particularly nurses, in some countries suggests that the acceptability of non-medical prescribing is based on the perceived value to the health care system as a whole. Our review suggests that there are substantial gaps in the knowledge base to help evidence based policy making in this arena. We suggest that future studies of non-medical prescribing in primary care focus on the broad range of patient and health service outcomes and include economic dimensions.			2011				1993
Occupational therapy and return to work: a systematic literature review		Désiron, H. A., de Rijk, A., Van Hoof, E. and Donceel, P.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: The primary aim of this review study was to gather evidence on the effectiveness in terms of return to work (RTW) of occupational therapy interventions (OTIs) in rehabilitation patients with non-congenital disorders. A secondary aim was to be able to select the most efficient OTI. METHODS: A systematic literature review of peer-reviewed papers was conducted using electronic databases (Cinahl, Cochrane Library, Ebsco, Medline (Pubmed), and PsycInfo). The search focussed on randomised controlled trials and cohort studies published in English from 1980 until September 2010. Scientific validity of the studies was assessed. RESULTS: Starting from 1532 papers with pertinent titles, six studies met the quality criteria. Results show systematic reviewing of OTIs on RTW was challenging due to varying populations, different outcome measures, and poor descriptions of methodology. There is evidence that OTIs as part of rehabilitation programs, increase RTW rates, although the methodological evidence of most studies is weak. CONCLUSIONS: Analysis of the selected papers indicated that OTIs positively influence RTW; two studies described precisely what the content of their OTI was. In order to identify the added value of OTIs on RTW, studies with well-defined OT intervention protocols are necessary.			2011				959
Effectiveness of interventions to improve the health and housing status of homeless people: a rapid systematic review		Fitzpatrick-Lewis, D., Ganann, R., Krishnaratne, S., Ciliska, D., Kouyoumdjian, F. and Hwang, S. W.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Research on interventions to positively impact health and housing status of people who are homeless has received substantially increased attention over the past 5 years. This rapid review examines recent evidence regarding interventions that have been shown to improve the health of homeless people, with particular focus on the effect of these interventions on housing status. METHODS: A total of 1,546 articles were identified by a structured search of five electronic databases, a hand search of grey literature and relevant journals, and contact with experts. Two reviewers independently screened the first 10% of titles and abstracts for relevance. Inter-rater reliability was high and as a result only one reviewer screened the remaining titles and abstracts. Articles were included if they were published between January 2004 and December 2009 and examined the effectiveness of an intervention to improve the health or healthcare utilization of people who were homeless, marginally housed, or at risk of homelessness. Two reviewers independently scored all relevant articles for quality. RESULTS: Eighty-four relevant studies were identified; none were of strong quality while ten were rated of moderate quality. For homeless people with mental illness, provision of housing upon hospital discharge was effective in improving sustained housing. For homeless people with substance abuse issues or concurrent disorders, provision of housing was associated with decreased substance use, relapses from periods of substance abstinence, and health services utilization, and increased housing tenure. Abstinent dependent housing was more effective in supporting housing status, substance abstinence, and improved psychiatric outcomes than non-abstinence dependent housing or no housing. Provision of housing also improved health outcomes among homeless populations with HIV. Health promotion programs can decrease risk behaviours among homeless populations. CONCLUSIONS: These studies provide important new evidence regarding interventions to improve health, housing status, and access to healthcare for homeless populations. The additional studies included in this current review provide further support for earlier evidence which found that coordinated treatment programs for homeless persons with concurrent mental illness and substance misuse issues usually result in better health and access to healthcare than usual care. This review also provides a synthesis of existing evidence regarding interventions that specifically support homeless populations with HIV.			2011				1994
Interventions to improve veterans' access to care: a systematic review of the literature		Kehle, S. M., Greer, N., Rutks, I. and Wilt, T.				journal of general internal medicine	journal of general internal medicine	OBJECTIVES: To conduct a systematic review to address the following key questions: (1) what interventions have been successful in improving access for veterans with reduced health care access? (2) Have interventions that have improved health care access led to improvements in process and clinical outcomes? DATA SOURCES: OVID MEDLINE, CINAHL, PsychINFO. STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA, PARTICIPANTS, AND INTERVENTIONS: English language articles published in peer-reviewed journals from 1990 to June 2010. All interventions designed to improve access to health care for US veterans that reported the impact of the intervention on perceived (e.g., satisfaction with access) or objective (e.g., travel time, wait time) access were included. APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS METHODS: Investigators abstracted data on study design, study quality, intervention, and impact of the intervention on access, process outcomes, and clinical outcomes. RESULTS: Nineteen articles (16 unique studies) met the inclusion criteria. While there were a small number of studies in support of any one intervention, all showed a positive impact on either perceived or objective measures of access. Implementation of Community Based Outpatient Clinics (n = 5 articles), use of Telemedicine (n = 5 articles), and Primary Care Mental Health Integration (n = 6 articles) improved access. All 16 unique studies reported process outcomes, most often satisfaction with care and utilization. Four studies reported clinical outcomes; three found no differences. LIMITATIONS: Included studies were largely of poor to fair methodological quality. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS OF KEY FINDINGS: Interventions can improve access to health care for veterans. Increased access was consistently linked to increased primary care utilization. There was a lack of data regarding the link between access and clinical outcomes; however, the limited data suggest that increased access may not improve clinical outcomes. Future research should focus on the quality and appropriateness of care and clinical outcomes.			2011				1380
Systematic review of safety checklists for use by medical care teams in acute hospital settings--limited evidence of effectiveness		Ko, H. C., Turner, T. J. and Finnigan, M. A.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	"BACKGROUND: Patient safety is a fundamental component of good quality health care. Checklists have been proposed as a method of improving patient safety. This systematic review, asked ""In acute hospital settings, would the use of safety checklists applied by medical care teams, compared to not using checklists, improve patient safety?"" METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, CINAHL, and EMBASE for randomised controlled trials published in English before September 2009. Studies were selected and appraised by two reviewers independently in consultation with colleagues, using inclusion, exclusion and appraisal criteria established a priori. RESULTS: Nine cohort studies with historical controls studies from four hospital care settings were included-intensive care unit, emergency department, surgery, and acute care. The studies used a variety of designs of safety checklists, and implemented them in different ways, however most incorporated an educational component to teach the staff how to use the checklist. The studies assessed outcomes occurring a few weeks to a maximum of 12 months post-implementation, and these outcomes were diverse.The studies were generally of low to moderate quality and of low levels of evidence, with all but one of the studies containing a high risk of bias.The results of these studies suggest some improvements in patient safety arising from use of safety checklists, but these were not consistent across all studies or for all outcomes. Some studies showed no difference in outcomes between checklist use and standard care without a checklist. Due to the variations in setting, checklist design, educational training given, and outcomes measured, it was unfeasible to accurately summarise any trends across all studies. CONCLUSIONS: The included studies suggest some benefits of using safety checklists to improve protocol adherence and patient safety, but due to the risk of bias in these studies, their results should be interpreted with caution. More high quality and studies, are needed to enable confident conclusions about the effectiveness of safety checklists in acute hospital settings."			2011				1529
Repeated antenatal corticosteroid treatment: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Peltoniemi, O. M., Kari, M. A. and Hallman, M.				acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica	acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica	OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the efficacy and safety of repeated antenatal corticosteroid on neonatal morbidity, growth and later development. DESIGN: MEDLINE, Cochrane database and a bibliography of identified articles were searched for English language studies. Design. Meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. SAMPLE: Randomized, controlled trials studying the efficacy and safety of repeat antenatal corticosteroid treatment on neonatal morbidity and early childhood development. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Respiratory distress syndrome, intrauterine growth, neurodevelopment. METHODS: Two reviewers independently assessed titles, abstracts and full studies, extracted data and assessed quality. Meta-analyses were performed, calculating risk ratios and weighted differences of means with 95% confidence intervals using a random-effects model. RESULTS: Eight trials were included. Repeated betamethasone treatment decreased the risk of respiratory distress syndrome (relative risk 0.85, 95% confidence interval 0.77-0.93). Trials involving weekly or biweekly repeated betamethasone and those involving a single rescue dose decreased the risk of respiratory distress syndrome. Intrauterine growth was significantly restricted among preterm infants exposed to weekly or biweekly repeated betamethasone. A single rescue course did not affect growth. Four follow-up studies did not reveal any disturbances in neurodevelopment or growth at two years of corrected age. CONCLUSIONS: Repeated corticosteroid treatment decreased the risk of respiratory distress syndrome among preterm infants. Weekly or biweekly repeated betamethasone restricted intrauterine growth, which raises concerns about long-term consequences on neurodevelopment and metabolism. More follow-up studies are needed to confirm the long-term safety of repeated betamethasone.			2011				1629
Technology-based self-care methods of improving antiretroviral adherence: a systematic review		Saberi, P. and Johnson, M. O.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: As HIV infection has shifted to a chronic condition, self-care practices have emerged as an important topic for HIV-positive individuals in maintaining an optimal level of health. Self-care refers to activities that patients undertake to maintain and improve health, such as strategies to achieve and maintain high levels of antiretroviral adherence. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Technology-based methods are increasingly used to enhance antiretroviral adherence; therefore, we systematically reviewed the literature to examine technology-based self-care methods that HIV-positive individuals utilize to improve adherence. Seven electronic databases were searched from 1/1/1980 through 12/31/2010. We included quantitative and qualitative studies. Among quantitative studies, the primary outcomes included ARV adherence, viral load, and CD4+ cell count and secondary outcomes consisted of quality of life, adverse effects, and feasibility/acceptability data. For qualitative/descriptive studies, interview themes, reports of use, and perceptions of use were summarized. Thirty-six publications were included (24 quantitative and 12 qualitative/descriptive). Studies with exclusive utilization of medication reminder devices demonstrated less evidence of enhancing adherence in comparison to multi-component methods. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: This systematic review offers support for self-care technology-based approaches that may result in improved antiretroviral adherence. There was a clear pattern of results that favored individually-tailored, multi-function technologies, which allowed for periodic communication with health care providers rather than sole reliance on electronic reminder devices.			2011				997
Effect of aspirin dose on mortality and cardiovascular events in people with diabetes: a meta-analysis		Simpson, S. H., Gamble, J. M., Mereu, L. and Chambers, T.				journal of general internal medicine	journal of general internal medicine	OBJECTIVES: Pharmacologic evidence suggests adequate antiplatelet activity in diabetic patients requires >100 mg aspirin daily, yet recent trials have used ?100 mg daily. This meta-analysis explored the relationship between aspirin dose and prevention of cardiovascular events. DATA SOURCES: Six electronic databases were searched using database-appropriate terms for aspirin, diabetes, and comparative study from inception until February 2010. REVIEW METHODS: Randomized controlled trials and cohort studies comparing aspirin to no antiplatelet therapy were included if they reported cardiovascular events as pre-specified outcomes, aspirin dose, and number of diabetic patients. Studies were stratified by daily aspirin dose (?100 mg; 101-325 mg; >325 mg) and pooled risk ratios (RR) were calculated using random effects models. All-cause mortality was the primary outcome of interest. Cardiovascular-related mortality, myocardial infarction, and stroke were secondary outcomes. RESULTS: Data for diabetic patients were available from 21 studies (n = 17,522). Overall, 1,172 (15.4%) of 7,592 aspirin users and 1,520 (18.4%) of 8,269 controls died (p = 0.31). The pooled RRs were 0.89 (95% CI: 0.72-1.10; p = 0.27) from 13 studies using ?100 mg (I(2) = 64%); 0.89 (95% CI: 0.61-1.30; p = 0.55) from four studies using 101-325 mg (I(2) = 83%); and 0.96 (95% CI: 0.85-1.08; p = 0.50) from eight studies using >325 mg (I(2) = 0%). Aspirin use was associated with a significantly lower risk of mortality (RR: 0.82; 95% CI: 0.69-0.98; p = 0.03) in 13 secondary prevention studies (I(2) = 27%), whereas aspirin use in seven primary prevention studies (I(2) = 0%) was not (RR: 1.01; 95% CI 0.85-1.19; p = 0.94). A substantial amount of heterogeneity was observed amongst studies in all outcomes. Although inclusion of cohort studies was a major source of heterogeneity, stratification by study design did not reveal a significant dose-response relationship. CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: This summary of available data does not support an aspirin dose-response effect for prevention of cardiovascular events in diabetic patients. However, the systematic review identified an important gap in randomized controlled trial evidence for using 101-325 mg aspirin daily in diabetes.			2011				2453
Interventions to improve work outcomes in work-related PTSD: a systematic review		Stergiopoulos, E., Cimo, A., Cheng, C., Bonato, S. and Dewa, C. S.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Posttraumatic stress disorder acquired at work can be debilitating both for workers and their employers. The disorder can result in increased sick leave, reduced productivity, and even unemployment. Furthermore, workers are especially unlikely to return to their previous place of employment after a traumatic incident at work because of the traumatic memories and symptoms of avoidance that typically accompany the disorder. Therefore, intervening in work-related PTSD becomes especially important in order to get workers back to the workplace. METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted using Medline, PsycINFO, Embase, and Web of Science. The articles were independently screened based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, followed by a quality assessment of all included articles. RESULTS: The systematic search identified seven articles for inclusion in the review. These consisted of six research articles and one systematic review. The review focused specifically on interventions using real exposure techniques for anxiety disorders in the workplace. In the research articles addressed in the current review, study populations included police officers, public transportation workers, and employees injured at work. The studies examined the effectiveness of EMDR, cognitive-behavioural techniques, and an integrative therapy approach called brief eclectic psychotherapy. Interestingly, 2 of the 6 research articles addressed add-on treatments for workplace PTSD, which were designed to treat workers with PTSD who failed to respond to traditional evidence-based psychotherapy. CONCLUSIONS: Results of the current review suggest that work-related interventions show promise as effective strategies for promoting return to work in employees who acquired PTSD in the workplace. Further research is needed in this area to determine how different occupational groups with specific types of traumatic exposure might respond differently to work-tailored treatments.			2011				1046
Mental health and psychosocial support in humanitarian settings: linking practice and research		Tol, W. A., Barbui, C., Galappatti, A., Silove, D., Betancourt, T. S., Souza, R., Golaz, A. and van Ommeren, M.				lancet	lancet	This review links practice, funding, and evidence for interventions for mental health and psychosocial wellbeing in humanitarian settings. We studied practice by reviewing reports of mental health and psychosocial support activities (2007-10); funding by analysis of the financial tracking service and the creditor reporting system (2007-09); and interventions by systematic review and meta-analysis. In 160 reports, the five most commonly reported activities were basic counselling for individuals (39%); facilitation of community support of vulnerable individuals (23%); provision of child-friendly spaces (21%); support of community-initiated social support (21%); and basic counselling for groups and families (20%). Most interventions took place and were funded outside national mental health and protection systems. 32 controlled studies of interventions were identified, 13 of which were randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that met the criteria for meta-analysis. Two studies showed promising effects for strengthening community and family supports. Psychosocial wellbeing was not included as an outcome in the meta-analysis, because its definition varied across studies. In adults with symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), meta-analysis of seven RCTs showed beneficial effects for several interventions (psychotherapy and psychosocial supports) compared with usual care or waiting list (standardised mean difference [SMD] -0·38, 95% CI -0·55 to -0·20). In children, meta-analysis of four RCTs failed to show an effect for symptoms of PTSD (-0·36, -0·83 to 0·10), but showed a beneficial effect of interventions (group psychotherapy, school-based support, and other psychosocial support) for internalising symptoms (six RCTs; SMD -0·24, -0·40 to -0·09). Overall, research and evidence focuses on interventions that are infrequently implemented, whereas the most commonly used interventions have had little rigorous scrutiny.			2011				2307
Effects of {beta}-blocker selectivity on blood pressure variability and stroke: A systematic review		Webb, A. J., Fischer, U. and Rothwell, P. M.				neurology	neurology	OBJECTIVES: [beta]-Blockers increase variability in systolic blood pressure (SBP), which probably explains their lesser effectiveness in preventing stroke vs myocardial infarction compared with other agents. This increase in variability in blood pressure (BP) may be particularly marked on non-cardioselective agents, potentially calling into question the widespread first-line use of propranolol in migraine with aura, elderly patients with essential tremor or anxiety, and other groups at risk of stroke. METHODS: We determined [beta]-blocker subclass effects on variability in BP and stroke risk in a systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing different types of [beta]-blocker with placebo or other agents. We determined pooled estimates of the effect of treatment on group variability in BP (ratio of the variances [VR]) and on the risk of stroke vs myocardial infarction during follow-up. RESULTS: Compared with other antihypertensives, variability in SBP was increased more by nonselective [beta]-blockers (VR=1.34, 1.13-1.59, p =0.002, 25 comparisons, 9,992 patients) than by [beta]1-selective agents (VR=1.09, 95% confidence interval 1.00-1.19, p =0.053, 68 comparisons, 40,746 patients; difference-p =0.038). In direct comparisons, variability in SBP was also significantly lower with [beta]1-selective vs nonselective [beta]-blockers (VR=0.81, 0.68-0.97, p =0.03, 18 comparisons, 954 patients). In comparisons with other antihypertensives, the increase in stroke risk with nonselective [beta]-blockers ([OR]=2.29, 1.32-3.96, p =0.002) was more marked than with [beta]1-selective agents (OR=1.24, 1.08-1.42, p =0.003, difference-p =0.03), as was the risk of stroke relative to the risk of myocardial infarction: OR=1.50 (0.93-2.42) vs 0.99 (0.82-1.19). CONCLUSION: Use of [beta]1-selective rather than nonselective agents may be advisable when [beta]-blockers are indicated for patients at risk of stroke. Neurology(R) 2011;77:731-737.			2011				1377
A systematic review on the effect of sweeteners on glycemic response and clinically relevant outcomes		Wiebe, N., Padwal, R., Field, C., Marks, S., Jacobs, R. and Tonelli, M.				bmc medicine	bmc medicine	BACKGROUND: The major metabolic complications of obesity and type 2 diabetes may be prevented and managed with dietary modification. The use of sweeteners that provide little or no calories may help to achieve this objective. METHODS: We did a systematic review and network meta-analysis of the comparative effectiveness of sweetener additives using Bayesian techniques. MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL and CAB Global were searched to January 2011. Randomized trials comparing sweeteners in obese, diabetic, and healthy populations were selected. Outcomes of interest included weight change, energy intake, lipids, glycated hemoglobin, markers of insulin resistance and glycemic response. Evidence-based items potentially indicating risk of bias were assessed. RESULTS: Of 3,666 citations, we identified 53 eligible randomized controlled trials with 1,126 participants. In diabetic participants, fructose reduced 2-hour blood glucose concentrations by 4.81 mmol/L (95% CI 3.29, 6.34) compared to glucose. Two-hour blood glucose concentration data comparing hypocaloric sweeteners to sucrose or high fructose corn syrup were inconclusive. Based on two ?10-week trials, we found that non-caloric sweeteners reduced energy intake compared to the sucrose groups by approximately 250-500 kcal/day (95% CI 153, 806). One trial found that participants in the non-caloric sweetener group had a decrease in body mass index compared to an increase in body mass index in the sucrose group (-0.40 vs 0.50 kg/m2, and -1.00 vs 1.60 kg/m2, respectively). No randomized controlled trials showed that high fructose corn syrup or fructose increased levels of cholesterol relative to other sweeteners. CONCLUSIONS: Considering the public health importance of obesity and its consequences; the clearly relevant role of diet in the pathogenesis and maintenance of obesity; and the billions of dollars spent on non-caloric sweeteners, little high-quality clinical research has been done. Studies are needed to determine the role of hypocaloric sweeteners in a wider population health strategy to prevent, reduce and manage obesity and its consequences.			2011				1389
Estimating travel reduction associated with the use of telemedicine by patients and healthcare professionals: proposal for quantitative synthesis in a systematic review		Wootton, R., Bahaadinbeigy, K. and Hailey, D.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	BACKGROUND: A major benefit offered by telemedicine is the avoidance of travel, by patients, their carers and health care professionals. Unfortunately, there is very little published information about the extent of avoided travel. We propose to undertake a systematic review of literature which reports credible data on the reductions in travel associated with the use of telemedicine. METHOD: The conventional approach to quantitative synthesis of the results from multiple studies is to conduct a meta analysis. However, too much heterogeneity exists between available studies to allow a meaningful meta analysis of the avoided travel when telemedicine is used across all possible settings. We propose instead to consider all credible evidence on avoided travel through telemedicine by fitting a linear model which takes into account the relevant factors in the circumstances of the studies performed. We propose the use of stepwise multiple regression to identify which factors are significant. DISCUSSION: Our proposed approach is illustrated by the example of teledermatology. In a preliminary review of the literature we found 20 studies in which the percentage of avoided travel through telemedicine could be inferred (a total of 5199 patients). The mean percentage avoided travel reported in the 12 store-and-forward studies was 43%. In the 7 real-time studies and in a single study with a hybrid technique, 70% of the patients avoided travel. A simplified model based on the modality of telemedicine employed (i.e. real-time or store and forward) explained 29% of the variance. The use of store and forward teledermatology alone was associated with 43% of avoided travel. The increase in the proportion of patients who avoided travel (25%) when real-time telemedicine was employed was significant (P = 0.014). Service planners can use this information to weigh up the costs and benefits of the two approaches.			2011				1558
Radical trachelectomy versus radical hysterectomy for the treatment of early cervical cancer: a systematic review		Xu, L., Sun, F. Q. and Wang, Z. H.				acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica	acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica	OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and safety of radical trachelectomy (RT) and radical hysterectomy (RH) for patients with early cervical cancer. DESIGN: Systematic review with meta-analysis. POPULATION: Women who had early cervical cancer. METHODS: Prospective controlled clinical trials comparing RT with RH were identified using a predefined search strategy. Recurrence, five-year recurrence-free survival rate, five-year overall survival rate, postoperative mortality, intraoperative and postoperative complications between the two operations were compared by using the methods provided by the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. RESULTS: Three controlled clinical trials involving 587 participants were included. Meta-analysis showed that there was no significant difference between the two groups in recurrence rate [1.38; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.58-3.28, p=0.47], five-year recurrence-free survival rate (1.17; 95% CI 0.54-2.53, p=0.69), five-year overall survival rate (0.86; 95% CI 0.30-2.43, p=0.78), postoperative mortality (1.14; 95% CI 0.42-3.11, p=0.80), intraoperative complications (1.66; 95% CI 0.11-25.28, p=0.72), postoperative complications (0.52; 95% CI 0.11-2.48, p=0.41), blood transfusion (0.29; 95% CI 0.06-1.36, p=0.12) and number of harvested lymph nodes. However, RT, compared with RH, reduced blood loss and shortened duration to normal urine residual volume and postoperative hospital stay. Moreover, RT may achieve to normal conception rates, while RH makes patients sterile. CONCLUSIONS: Radical trachelectomy has similar efficacy and safety to RH as the surgical treatment for early cervical cancer. Moreover, it reduced blood loss and shortened the duration to normal urine residual volumes and postoperative hospital stay. Radical trachelectomy can be used to treat early stage cervical cancer as an alternative operation for patients who wish to preserve fertility.			2011				1225
Systematic review and meta-analysis of the efficacy and safety of existing TNF blocking agents in treatment of rheumatoid arthritis		Aaltonen, K. J., Virkki, L. M., Malmivaara, A., Konttinen, Y. T., Nordström, D. C. and Blom, M.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Five-tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-blockers (infliximab, etanercept, adalimumab, certolizumab pegol and golimumab) are available for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Only few clinical trials compare one TNF-blocker to another. Hence, a systematic review is required to indirectly compare the substances. The aim of our study is to estimate the efficacy and the safety of TNF-blockers in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and indirectly compare all five currently available blockers by combining the results from included randomized clinical trials (RCT). METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted using databases including: MEDLINE, SCOPUS (including EMBASE), Cochrane library and electronic search alerts. Only articles reporting double-blind RCTs of TNF-blockers vs. placebo, with or without concomitant methotrexate (MTX), in treatment of RA were selected. Data collected were information of patients, interventions, controls, outcomes, study methods and eventual sources of bias. RESULTS: Forty-one articles reporting on 26 RCTs were included in the systematic review and meta-analysis. Five RCTs studied infliximab, seven etanercept, eight adalimumab, three golimumab and three certolizumab. TNF-blockers were more efficacious than placebo at all time points but were comparable to MTX. TNF-blocker and MTX combination was superior to either MTX or TNF-blocker alone. Increasing doses did not improve the efficacy. TNF-blockers were relatively safe compared to either MTX or placebo. CONCLUSIONS: No single substance clearly rose above others in efficacy, but the results of the safety analyses suggest that etanercept might be the safest alternative. Interestingly, MTX performs nearly identically considering both efficacy and safety aspects with a margin of costs.			2012				1180
Comparative performance of private and public healthcare systems in low- and middle-income countries: a systematic review		Basu, S., Andrews, J., Kishore, S., Panjabi, R. and Stuckler, D.				plos medicine	plos medicine	"INTRODUCTION: Private sector healthcare delivery in low- and middle-income countries is sometimes argued to be more efficient, accountable, and sustainable than public sector delivery. Conversely, the public sector is often regarded as providing more equitable and evidence-based care. We performed a systematic review of research studies investigating the performance of private and public sector delivery in low- and middle-income countries. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Peer-reviewed studies including case studies, meta-analyses, reviews, and case-control analyses, as well as reports published by non-governmental organizations and international agencies, were systematically collected through large database searches, filtered through methodological inclusion criteria, and organized into six World Health Organization health system themes: accessibility and responsiveness; quality; outcomes; accountability, transparency, and regulation; fairness and equity; and efficiency. Of 1,178 potentially relevant unique citations, data were obtained from 102 articles describing studies conducted in low- and middle-income countries. Comparative cohort and cross-sectional studies suggested that providers in the private sector more frequently violated medical standards of practice and had poorer patient outcomes, but had greater reported timeliness and hospitality to patients. Reported efficiency tended to be lower in the private than in the public sector, resulting in part from perverse incentives for unnecessary testing and treatment. Public sector services experienced more limited availability of equipment, medications, and trained healthcare workers. When the definition of ""private sector"" included unlicensed and uncertified providers such as drug shop owners, most patients appeared to access care in the private sector; however, when unlicensed healthcare providers were excluded from the analysis, the majority of people accessed public sector care. ""Competitive dynamics"" for funding appeared between the two sectors, such that public funds and personnel were redirected to private sector development, followed by reductions in public sector service budgets and staff. CONCLUSIONS: Studies evaluated in this systematic review do not support the claim that the private sector is usually more efficient, accountable, or medically effective than the public sector; however, the public sector appears frequently to lack timeliness and hospitality towards patients."			2012				1164
Off-label biologic regimens in psoriasis: a systematic review of efficacy and safety of dose escalation, reduction, and interrupted biologic therapy		Brezinski, E. A. and Armstrong, A. W.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVES: While off-label dosing of biologic treatments may be necessary in selected psoriasis patients, no systematic review exists to date that synthesizes the efficacy and safety of these off-label dosing regimens. The aim of this systematic review is to evaluate efficacy and safety of off-label dosing regimens (dose escalation, dose reduction, and interrupted treatment) with etanercept, adalimumab, infliximab, ustekinumab, and alefacept for psoriasis treatment. DATA SOURCES AND STUDY SELECTION: We searched OVID Medline from January 1, 1990 through August 1, 2011 for prospective clinical trials that studied biologic therapy for psoriasis treatment in adults. Individual articles were screened for studies that examined escalated, reduced, or interrupted therapy with etanercept, adalimumab, infliximab, ustekinumab, or alefacept. DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 23 articles with 12,617 patients matched the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the systematic review. Data were examined for primary and secondary efficacy outcomes and adverse events including infections, malignancies, cardiovascular events, and anti-drug antibodies. The preponderance of data suggests that continuous treatment with anti-TNF agents and anti-IL12/23 agent was necessary for maintenance of disease control. Among non-responders, dose escalation with etanercept, adalimumab, ustekinumab, and alefacept typically resulted in greater efficacy than standard dosing. Dose reduction with etanercept and alefacept resulted in reduced efficacy. Withdrawal of the examined biologics led to an increase in disease activity; efficacy from retreatment did not result in equivalent initial response rates for most biologics. Safety data on off-label dosing regimens are limited. CONCLUSION: Dose escalation in non-responders generally resulted in increased efficacy in the examined biologics used to treat moderate-to-severe psoriasis. Continuous treatment with anti-TNF agents and anti-IL12/23 agent results in superior efficacy over interrupted therapy. The decision to use off-label dosing needs to account for both benefits and risks and be individualized to patients' disease severity, quality of life, and existence of comorbidities.			2012				1332
Pharmacologic and compression therapies for postthrombotic syndrome: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials		Cohen, J. M., Akl, E. A. and Kahn, S. R.				chest	chest	BACKGROUND: Postthrombotic syndrome (PTS) is a frequent, chronic complication of DVT. The effectiveness and safety of available treatments are unknown. The objective of this study was to systematically review the literature to assess whether pharmacologic and compression therapies are effective and safe for the treatment of PTS. METHODS: We sought to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) via a search of PubMed, studies referenced in included publications, and studies that cited relevant literature. RESULTS: A total of 121 titles were reviewed, 12 full-text publications were assessed for inclusion, and seven RCTs, including 703 patients, were selected for inclusion. Four trials assessed the effectiveness of drugs, including rutosides, hidrosmin, and defibrotide, and four trials assessed compression therapies for treatment of PTS. Systems for the diagnosis and classification of PTS severity varied across studies. Three of four drug therapy trials reported moderate improvement in selected PTS symptoms, minor changes in calf and ankle circumference, and some effects on ulcer healing. Two studies of compression stockings did not report benefit. Two studies that assessed compression devices reported improvement in PTS symptoms scores; one of these reported an improvement in quality-of-life score. CONCLUSIONS: There is limited and low-quality evidence for the effectiveness of rutosides, hidrosmin, defibrotide, and compression stockings, but moderate-quality evidence that supports the use of intermittent compression to provide at least short-term relief from PTS. More rigorous studies are needed to assess the short- and long-term effectiveness and safety of PTS therapies.			2012				1877
Efficacy of once-daily indacaterol 75 ?g relative to alternative bronchodilators in COPD: a study level and a patient level network meta-analysis		Cope, S., Zhang, J., Williams, J. and Jansen, J. P.				bmc pulmonary medicine	bmc pulmonary medicine	BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to evaluate the comparative efficacy of indacaterol 75 ?g once daily (OD), tiotropium 18 ?g OD, salmeterol 50 ?g twice daily (BID), formoterol 12 ?g BID, and placebo for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) based on individual patient data (IPD) from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from the indacaterol trial program and aggregate data (AD) identified from a systematic review of RCTs. METHODS: 22 RCTs were included in the AD analysis that evaluated: indacaterol 75 ?g (n = 2 studies), indacaterol 150??g n = 5 (i.e. salmeterol 50 ?g) (n = 5), indacaterol 300 ?g (n = 2), tiotropium 18 ?g (n = 10), salmeterol 50 ?g (n = 7), and formoterol 12 ?g (n = 4). All of the studies except for one head-to-head comparison (tiotropium vs. salmeterol) were placebo controlled. Outcomes of interest were trough forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) total score at week 12. The AD from all trials was analysed simultaneously using a Bayesian network meta-analysis (NMA) and relative treatment effects between all regimens were obtained. In a separate analysis, the IPD available from the 6 indacaterol RCTs was analysed in a NMA. Treatment-by-covariate interactions were included in both analyses to improve similarity of the trials. RESULTS: All interventions compared were more efficacious than placebo regarding FEV1 at 12 weeks. Indacaterol 75 ?g is expected to result in a comparable FEV1 at 12 weeks to tiotropium and salmeterol based on both IPD and AD analyses. In comparison to formoterol, the IPD and AD results indicate indacaterol 75 ?g is more efficacious (IPD = 0.07 L difference; 95%Credible Interval (CrI) 0.02 to 0.11; AD = 0.05 L difference; 95%CrI 0.01; 0.09). In terms of SGRQ total score at 12 weeks, indacaterol 75 ?g and formoterol were more efficacious than placebo, whereas for tiotropium and salmeterol the credible intervals included zero for the AD results only (tiotropium: -2.99 points improvement versus placebo; 95%CrI -6.48 to 0.43; salmeterol:-2.52; 95%CrI: -5.34; 0.44). Both IPD and AD results suggest that indacaterol 75 ?g is expected to be comparable to all active treatments. CONCLUSIONS: Based on a synthesis of currently available AD RCT evidence as well as an IPD network meta-analysis of six RCTs, indacaterol 75 ?g is expected to be at least as efficacious as formoterol and comparable to tiotropium and salmeterol regarding FEV1. Furthermore, indacaterol 75 ?g shows comparable level of improvement in health-related quality of life to tiotropium, salmeterol, and formoterol, as measured by the SGRQ.			2012				2569
Pharmacological interventions in the treatment of the acute effects of cannabis: a systematic review of literature		Crippa, J. A., Derenusson, G. N., Chagas, M. H., Atakan, Z., Martín-Santos, R., Zuardi, A. W. and Hallak, J. E.				harm reduction journal	harm reduction journal	BACKGROUND: Cannabis intoxication is related to a number of physical and mental health risks with ensuing social costs. However, little attention has been given to the investigation of possible pharmacological interactions in this condition. OBJECTIVE: To review the available scientific literature concerning pharmacological interventions for the treatment of the acute effects of cannabis. METHODS: A search was performed on the Pubmed, Lilacs, and Scielo online databases by combining the terms cannabis, intoxication, psychosis, anxiety, and treatment. The articles selected from this search had their reference lists checked for additional publications related to the topic of the review. RESULTS: The reviewed articles consisted of case reports and controlled clinical trials and are presented according to interventions targeting the physiological, psychiatric, and cognitive symptoms provoked by cannabis. The pharmacological interventions reported in these studies include: beta-blockers, antiarrhythmic agents, antagonists of CB-1 and GABA-benzodiazepine receptors, antipsychotics, and cannabidiol. CONCLUSION: Although scarce, the evidence on pharmacological interventions for the management of cannabis intoxication suggests that propanolol and rimonabant are the most effective compounds currently available to treat the physiological and subjective effects of the drug. Further studies are necessary to establish the real effectiveness of these two medications, as well as the effectiveness of other candidate compounds to counteract the effects of cannabis intoxication, such as cannabidiol and flumazenil.			2012				1800
Which providers can bridge the health literacy gap in lifestyle risk factor modification education: a systematic review and narrative synthesis		Dennis, S., Williams, A., Taggart, J., Newall, A., Denney-Wilson, E., Zwar, N., Shortus, T. and Harris, M. F.				bmc family practice	bmc family practice	BACKGROUND: People with low health literacy may not have the capacity to self-manage their health and prevent the development of chronic disease through lifestyle risk factor modification. The aim of this narrative synthesis is to determine the effectiveness of primary healthcare providers in developing health literacy of patients to make SNAPW (smoking, nutrition, alcohol, physical activity and weight) lifestyle changes. METHODS: Studies were identified by searching Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, CINAHL, Joanna Briggs Institute, Psychinfo, Web of Science, Scopus, APAIS, Australian Medical Index, Community of Science and Google Scholar from 1 January 1985 to 30 April 2009. Health literacy and related concepts are poorly indexed in the databases so a list of text words were developed and tested for use. Hand searches were also conducted of four key journals. Studies published in English and included males and females aged 18 years and over with at least one SNAPW risk factor for the development of a chronic disease. The interventions had to be implemented within primary health care, with an aim to influence the health literacy of patients to make SNAPW lifestyle changes. The studies had to report an outcome measure associated with health literacy (knowledge, skills, attitudes, self efficacy, stages of change, motivation and patient activation) and SNAPW risk factor.The definition of health literacy in terms of functional, communicative and critical health literacy provided the guiding framework for the review. RESULTS: 52 papers were included that described interventions to address health literacy and lifestyle risk factor modification provided by different health professionals. Most of the studies (71%, 37/52) demonstrated an improvement in health literacy, in particular interventions of a moderate to high intensity.Non medical health care providers were effective in improving health literacy. However this was confounded by intensity of intervention. Provider barriers impacted on their relationship with patients. CONCLUSION: Capacity to provide interventions of sufficient intensity is an important condition for effective health literacy support for lifestyle change. This has implications for workforce development and the organisation of primary health care.			2012				2009
Herbal medicines for Parkinson's disease: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials		Kim, T. H., Cho, K. H., Jung, W. S. and Lee, M. S.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: We conducted systematic review to evaluate current evidence of herbal medicines (HMs) for Parkinson's disease (PD). METHODS: Along with hand searches, relevant literatures were located from the electronic databases including CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, AMED, PsycInfo, CNKI, 7 Korean Medical Databases and J-East until August, 2010 without language and publication status. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs), quasi-randomized controlled trials and randomized crossover trials, which evaluate HMs for idiopathic PD were selected for this review. Two independent authors extracted data from the relevant literatures and any disagreement was solved by discussion. RESULTS: From the 3432 of relevant literatures, 64 were included. We failed to suggest overall estimates of treatment effects on PD because of the wide heterogeneity of used herbal recipes and study designs in the included studies. When compared with placebo, specific effects were not observed in favor of HMs definitely. Direct comparison with conventional drugs suggested that there was no evidence of better effect for HMs. Many studies compared combination therapy with single active drugs and combination therapy showed significant improvement in PD related outcomes and decrease in the dose of anti-Parkinson's drugs with low adverse events rate. CONCLUSION: Currently, there is no conclusive evidence about the effectiveness and efficacy of HMs on PD. For establishing clinical evidence of HMs on PD, rigorous RCTs with sufficient statistical power should be promoted in future.			2012				1211
Rituximab for children with immune thrombocytopenia: a systematic review		Liang, Y., Zhang, L., Gao, J., Hu, D. and Ai, Y.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Rituximab has been widely used off-label as a second line treatment for children with immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). However, its role in the management of pediatric ITP requires clarification. To understand and interpret the available evidence, we conducted a systematic review to assess the efficacy and safety of rituximab for children with ITP. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, CBM, CNKI, abstract databases of American Society of Hematology, American Society of Clinical Oncology and Pediatric Academic Society. Clinical studies published in full text or abstract only in any language that met predefined inclusion criteria were eligible. Efficacy analysis was restricted to studies enrolling 5 or more patients. Safety was evaluated from all studies that reported data of toxicity. 14 studies (323 patients) were included for efficacy assessment in children with primary ITP. The pooled complete response (platelet count ? 100 × 10(9)/L) and response (platelet count ? 30 × 10(9)/L) rate after rituximab treatment were 39% (95% CI, 30% to 49%) and 68% (95%CI, 58% to 77%), respectively, with median response duration of 12.8 month. 4 studies (29 patients) were included for efficacy assessment in children with secondary ITP. 11 (64.7%) of 17 patients associated with Evans syndrome achieved response. All 6 patients with systemic lupus erythematosus associated ITP and all 6 patients with autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome associated ITP achieved response. 91 patients experienced 108 adverse events associated with rituximab, among that, 91 (84.3%) were mild to moderate, and no death was reported. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Randomized controlled studies on effect of rituximab for children with ITP are urgently needed, although a series of uncontrolled studies found that rituximab resulted in a good platelet count response both in children with primary and children secondary ITP. Most adverse events associated with rituximab were mild to moderate, and no death was reported.			2012				1029
Addition of bevacizumab to first-line chemotherapy in advanced colorectal cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis, with emphasis on chemotherapy subgroups		Macedo, L. T., da Costa Lima, A. B. and Sasse, A. D.				bmc cancer	bmc cancer	BACKGROUND: Bevacizumab has an important role in first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. However, clinical trials studying its effect have involved distinct chemotherapy regimens with divergent results. The aim of this meta-analysis is to gather current data and evaluate not only the efficacy of bevacizumab, but also the impact of divergent backbone regimens. METHODS: A wide search of randomized clinical trials using bevacizumab in first-line metastatic colorectal cancer was performed in Embase, MEDLINE, LILACS and Cochrane databases. Meeting presentations and abstracts were also investigated. The resulting data were examined and included in the meta-analysis according to the type of regimen. RESULTS: Six trials, totaling 3060 patients, were analyzed. There was an advantage to using bevacizumab for overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) (HR = 0.84; CI: 0.77-0.91; P < 0.00001 and HR = 0.72; CI: 0.66-0.78; P < 0.00001, respectively). However, heterogeneity of results was very high for both outcomes, and subgroup analyses supported the OS advantage with bevacizumab restricted to irinotecan-based regimens. Infusional fluorouracil subsets involved a minor proportion, and did not demonstrate statistical benefit in PFS or OS. Regarding toxicity, higher rates of grades 3-4 hypertension, bleeding, thromboembolic events and proteinuria were uniformly observed with bevacizumab, leading to increased treatment interruptions (HR = 1.47; P = 0.0004). CONCLUSIONS: Bevacizumab has efficacy in first-line treatment of advanced colorectal cancer, but the current data are insufficient to support efficacy in all regimens, especially infusional fluorouracil regimens, like FOLFIRI and FOLFOX.			2012				1976
Lithium toxicity profile: a systematic review and meta-analysis		McKnight, R. F., Adida, M., Budge, K., Stockton, S., Goodwin, G. M. and Geddes, J. R.				lancet	lancet	BACKGROUND: Lithium is a widely used and effective treatment for mood disorders. There has been concern about its safety but no adequate synthesis of the evidence for adverse effects. We aimed to undertake a clinically informative, systematic toxicity profile of lithium. METHODS: We undertook a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials and observational studies. We searched electronic databases, specialist journals, reference lists, textbooks, and conference abstracts. We used a hierarchy of evidence which considered randomised controlled trials, cohort studies, case-control studies, and case reports that included patients with mood disorders given lithium. Outcome measures were renal, thyroid, and parathyroid function; weight change; skin disorders; hair disorders; and teratogenicity. FINDINGS: We screened 5988 abstracts for eligibility and included 385 studies in the analysis. On average, glomerular filtration rate was reduced by -6·22 mL/min (95% CI -14·65 to 2·20, p=0·148) and urinary concentrating ability by 15% of normal maximum (weighted mean difference -158·43 mOsm/kg, 95% CI -229·78 to -87·07, p<0·0001). Lithium might increase risk of renal failure, but the absolute risk was small (18 of 3369 [0·5%] patients received renal replacement therapy). The prevalence of clinical hypothyroidism was increased in patients taking lithium compared with those given placebo (odds ratio [OR] 5·78, 95% CI 2·00-16·67; p=0·001), and thyroid stimulating hormone was increased on average by 4·00 iU/mL (95% CI 3·90-4·10, p<0·0001). Lithium treatment was associated with increased blood calcium (+0·09 mmol/L, 95% CI 0·02-0·17, p=0·009), and parathyroid hormone (+7·32 pg/mL, 3·42-11·23, p<0·0001). Patients receiving lithium gained more weight than did those receiving placebo (OR 1·89, 1·27-2·82, p=0·002), but not those receiving olanzapine (0·32, 0·21-0·49, p<0·0001). We recorded no significant increased risk of congenital malformations, alopecia, or skin disorders. INTERPRETATION: Lithium is associated with increased risk of reduced urinary concentrating ability, hypothyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, and weight gain. There is little evidence for a clinically significant reduction in renal function in most patients, and the risk of end-stage renal failure is low. The risk of congenital malformations is uncertain; the balance of risks should be considered before lithium is withdrawn during pregnancy. Because of the consistent finding of a high prevalence of hyperparathyroidism, calcium concentrations should be checked before and during treatment. FUNDING: National Institute for Health Research Programme Grant for Applied Research.			2012				1020
Comparative effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia: a systematic review		Mitchell, M. D., Gehrman, P., Perlis, M. and Umscheid, C. A.				bmc family practice	bmc family practice	BACKGROUND: Insomnia is common in primary care, can persist after co-morbid conditions are treated, and may require long-term medication treatment. A potential alternative to medications is cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I). METHODS: In accordance with PRISMA guidelines, we systematically reviewed MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register, and PsycINFO for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing CBT-I to any prescription or non-prescription medication in patients with primary or comorbid insomnia. Trials had to report quantitative sleep outcomes (e.g. sleep latency) in order to be included in the analysis. Extracted results included quantitative sleep outcomes, as well as psychological outcomes and adverse effects when available. Evidence base quality was assessed using GRADE. RESULTS: Five studies met criteria for analysis. Low to moderate grade evidence suggests CBT-I has superior effectiveness to benzodiazepine and non-benzodiazepine drugs in the long term, while very low grade evidence suggests benzodiazepines are more effective in the short term. Very low grade evidence supports use of CBT-I to improve psychological outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: CBT-I is effective for treating insomnia when compared with medications, and its effects may be more durable than medications. Primary care providers should consider CBT-I as a first-line treatment option for insomnia.			2012				1885
Ethanol Locks to Prevent Catheter-Related Bloodstream Infections in Parenteral Nutrition: A Meta-Analysis		Oliveira, C., Nasr, A., Brindle, M. and Wales, P. W.				pediatrics	pediatrics	"OBJECTIVE: Patients with pediatric intestinal failure (IF) depend on parenteral nutrition for growth and survival, but are at risk for complications, such as catheter-related bloodstream infections (CRBSIs). CRBSI prevention is crucial, as sepsis is an important cause of IF- associated liver disease and mortality. We aim to estimate the pooled effectiveness and safety of ethanol locks (ELs) in comparison with heparin locks (HLs) with regard to CRBSI rate and catheter replacements for pediatric IF patients with chronic parenteral nutrition dependence. METHODS: A systematic review without language restriction was performed on Medline (1948-2010), Embase (1980-2010), and conference programs and trial registries up to December 2010. Search terms included ""Catheter-Related Infections,"" ""Catheter,"" ""Catheters, Indwelling,"" ""alcohol,"" ""ethanol,"" and ""lock."" Two authors identified 4 retrospective studies for the pediatric IF population. Double, independent data extraction using predefined data fields and risk of bias assessment (Newcastle-Ottawa scale) was performed. RESULTS: In comparison with HLs, ELs reduced the CRBSI-rate per 1000 catheter days by 7.67 events and catheter replacements by 5.07. EL therapy decreased the CRBSI rate by 81% and replacements by 72%. One hundred eight to 150 catheter days of EL exposure were necessary to prevent 1 CRBSI and 122 to 689 days of exposure avoided 1 catheter replacement. Adverse events were rare and included thrombotic events. CONCLUSIONS: In pediatric patients with IF, EL is a more effective alternative to HL. Adverse events include thrombotic events."			2012				2397
Pharmacologic prophylaxis for acute mountain sickness: a systematic shortcut review		Seupaul, R. A., Welch, J. L., Malka, S. T. and Emmett, T. W.				annals of emergency medicine	annals of emergency medicine	STUDY OBJECTIVE: Multiple studies have explored pharmacologic interventions to prevent acute mountain sickness. A systematic review of this subject published in 2000 found that both acetazolamide and dexamethasone were effective. Since 2000, a number of other agents have been reported to be beneficial. This EBEM review evaluates the most current evidence on this topic. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, SPORTDiscus, Emergency Medical Abstracts, and ClinicalTrials.gov from 2000 to July 2011. Only randomized placebo-controlled trials with an N greater than or equal to 50 and systematic reviews were reviewed. Standard criteria for assessing trial quality were independently assessed by 2 authors. RESULTS: Seven hundred eighty-six citations were retrieved, of which 105 were reviewed in their entirety. Eleven randomized controlled trials and 1 systematic review appeared to meet inclusion criteria; however, 4 randomized controlled trials were excluded for high risk of bias. The remaining 7 randomized controlled trials investigated antioxidants, magnesium, sumatriptan, gabapentin, acetazolamide, and Ginkgo biloba. No trials studying dexamethasone met our criteria. Acetazolamide was associated with a reduction in acute mountain sickness symptoms, with a number needed to treat ranging from 8 to 3 among 3 trials and at doses ranging from 250 to 750 mg daily. Sumatriptan showed benefit in 1 trial (number needed to treat=4), as did gabapentin (number needed to treat=6). Antioxidants, magnesium, and G biloba were not efficacious. Reported adverse events included somnolence with gabapentin and paresthesias with acetazolamide. The systematic review affirmed our results but did not capture trials studying antioxidants, magnesium, sumatriptan, or gabapentin. CONCLUSION: Acetazolamide is effective for the prevention of acute mountain sickness but may be associated with paresthesias. Sumatriptan and gabapentin are beneficial but require further study.			2012				943
Effects of cardiovascular exercise early after stroke: systematic review and meta-analysis		Stoller, O., de Bruin, E. D., Knols, R. H. and Hunt, K. J.				bmc neurology	bmc neurology	"BACKGROUND: Previous studies have shown the beneficial effects of aerobic exercise in chronic stroke. Most motor and functional recovery occurs in the first months after stroke. Improving cardiovascular capacity may have potential to precipitate recovery during early stroke rehabilitation. Currently, little is known about the effects of early cardiovascular exercise in stroke survivors. The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the effectiveness of cardiovascular exercise early after stroke. METHODS: A systematic literature search was performed. For this review, randomized and non-randomized prospective controlled cohort studies using a cardiovascular, cardiopulmonary or aerobic training intervention starting within 6 months post stroke were considered. The PEDro scale was used to detect risk of bias in individual studies. Inter-rater agreement was calculated (kappa). Meta-analysis was performed using a random-effects model. RESULTS: A total of 11 trials were identified for inclusion. Inter-rater agreement was considered to be ""very good"" (Kappa: 0.81, Standard Error: 0.06, CI95%: 0.70-0.92), and the methodological quality was ""good"" (7 studies) to ""fair"" (4 studies). Peak oxygen uptake data were available for 155 participants. Pooled analysis yielded homogenous effects favouring the intervention group (standardised mean difference (SMD) = 0.83, CI95% = 0.50-1.16, Z = 4.93, P < 0.01). Walking endurance assessed with the 6 Minute Walk Test comprised 278 participants. Pooled analysis revealed homogenous effects favouring the cardiovascular training intervention group (SMD = 0.69, CI95%?= 0.45-0.94, Z = 5.58, P < 0.01). Gait speed, measured in 243 participants, did not show significant results (SMD = 0.51, CI95%?=?-0.25-1.26, Z = 1.31, P = 0.19) in favour of early cardiovascular exercise. CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis shows that stroke survivors may benefit from cardiovascular exercise during sub-acute stages to improve peak oxygen uptake and walking distance. Thus, cardiovascular exercise should be considered in sub-acute stroke rehabilitation. However, concepts to influence and evaluate aerobic capacity in severely affected individuals with sub-acute stroke, as well as in the very early period after stroke, are lacking.Further research is needed to develop appropriate methods for cardiovascular rehabilitation early after stroke and to evaluate long-term effects of cardiovascular exercise on aerobic capacity, physical functioning, and quality-of-life."			2012				1229
Integrating prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission programs to improve uptake: a systematic review		Tudor Car, L., Van Velthoven, M. H., Brusamento, S., Elmoniry, H., Car, J., Majeed, A., Tugwell, P., Welch, V., Marusic, A. and Atun, R.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: We performed a systematic review to assess the effect of integrated perinatal prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV interventions compared to non- or partially integrated services on the uptake in low- and middle-income countries. METHODS: We searched for experimental, quasi-experimental and controlled observational studies in any language from 21 databases and grey literature sources. RESULTS: Out of 28 654 citations retrieved, five studies met our inclusion criteria. A cluster randomized controlled trial reported higher probability of nevirapine uptake at the labor wards implementing HIV testing and structured nevirapine adherence assessment (RRR 1.37, bootstrapped 95% CI, 1.04-1.77). A stepped wedge design study showed marked improvement in antiretroviral therapy (ART) enrolment (44.4% versus 25.3%, p<0.001) and initiation (32.9% versus 14.4%, p<0.001) in integrated care, but the median gestational age of ART initiation (27.1 versus 27.7 weeks, p = 0.4), ART duration (10.8 versus 10.0 weeks, p = 0.3) or 90 days ART retention (87.8% versus 91.3%, p = 0.3) did not differ significantly. A cohort study reported no significant difference either in the ART coverage (55% versus 48% versus 47%, p = 0.29) or eight weeks of ART duration before the delivery (50% versus 42% versus 52%; p = 0.96) between integrated, proximal and distal partially integrated care. Two before and after studies assessed the impact of integration on HIV testing uptake in antenatal care. The first study reported that significantly more women received information on PMTCT (92% versus 77%, p<0.001), were tested (76% versus 62%, p<0.001) and learned their HIV status (66% versus 55%, p<0.001) after integration. The second study also reported significant increase in HIV testing uptake after integration (98.8% versus 52.6%, p<0.001). CONCLUSION: Limited, non-generalizable evidence supports the effectiveness of integrated PMTCT programs. More research measuring coverage and other relevant outcomes is urgently needed to inform the design of services delivering PMTCT programs.			2012				1369
Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator for acute ischaemic stroke: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis		Wardlaw, J. M., Murray, V., Berge, E., del Zoppo, G., Sandercock, P., Lindley, R. L. and Cohen, G.				lancet	lancet	BACKGROUND: Recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA, alteplase) improved functional outcome in patients treated soon after acute ischaemic stroke in randomised trials, but licensing is restrictive and use varies widely. The IST-3 trial adds substantial new data. We therefore assessed all the evidence from randomised trials for rt-PA in acute ischaemic stroke in an updated systematic review and meta-analysis. METHODS: We searched for randomised trials of intravenous rt-PA versus control given within 6 h of onset of acute ischaemic stroke up to March 30, 2012. We estimated summary odds ratios (ORs) and 95% CI in the primary analysis for prespecified outcomes within 7 days and at the final follow-up of all patients treated up to 6 h after stroke. FINDINGS: In up to 12 trials (7012 patients), rt-PA given within 6 h of stroke significantly increased the odds of being alive and independent (modified Rankin Scale, mRS 0-2) at final follow-up (1611/3483 [46·3%] vs 1434/3404 [42·1%], OR 1·17, 95% CI 1·06-1·29; p=0·001), absolute increase of 42 (19-66) per 1000 people treated, and favourable outcome (mRS 0-1) absolute increase of 55 (95% CI 33-77) per 1000. The benefit of rt-PA was greatest in patients treated within 3 h (mRS 0-2, 365/896 [40·7%] vs 280/883 [31·7%], 1·53, 1·26-1·86, p<0·0001), absolute benefit of 90 (46-135) per 1000 people treated, and mRS 0-1 (283/896 [31·6%] vs 202/883 [22·9%], 1·61, 1·30-1·90; p<0·0001), absolute benefit 87 (46-128) per 1000 treated. Numbers of deaths within 7 days were increased (250/2807 [8·9%] vs 174/2728 [6·4%], 1·44, 1·18-1·76; p=0·0003), but by final follow-up the excess was no longer significant (679/3548 [19·1%] vs 640/3464 [18·5%], 1·06, 0·94-1·20; p=0·33). Symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage (272/3548 [7·7%] vs 63/3463 [1·8%], 3·72, 2·98-4·64; p<0·0001) accounted for most of the early excess deaths. Patients older than 80 years achieved similar benefit to those aged 80 years or younger, particularly when treated early. INTERPRETATION: The evidence indicates that intravenous rt-PA increased the proportion of patients who were alive with favourable outcome and alive and independent at final follow-up. The data strengthen previous evidence to treat patients as early as possible after acute ischaemic stroke, although some patients might benefit up to 6 h after stroke. FUNDING: UK Medical Research Council, Stroke Association, University of Edinburgh, National Health Service Health Technology Assessment Programme, Swedish Heart-Lung Fund, AFA Insurances Stockholm (Arbetsmarknadens Partners Forsakringsbolag), Karolinska Institute, Marianne and Marcus Wallenberg Foundation, Research Council of Norway, Oslo University Hospital.			2012				1407
Effect of anti-obesity drug on cardiovascular risk factors: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Zhou, Y. H., Ma, X. Q., Wu, C., Lu, J., Zhang, S. S., Guo, J., Wu, S. Q., Ye, X. F., Xu, J. F. and He, J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Anti-obesity drugs are widely used to prevent the complications of obesity, however, the effects of anti-obesity drugs on cardiovascular risk factors are unclear at the present time. We carried out a comprehensively systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the effects of anti-obesity drugs on cardiovascular risk factors. METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We systematically searched Medline, EmBase, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, reference lists of articles and proceedings of major meetings for relevant literatures. We included randomized placebo-controlled trials that reported the effects of anti-obesity drugs on cardiovascular risk factors compared to placebo. Overall, orlistat produced a reduction of 2.39 kg (95%CI-3.34 to -1.45) for weight, a reduction of 0.27 mmol/L (95%CI: -0.36 to -0.17) for total cholesterol, a reduction of 0.21 mmol/L (95%CI: -0.30 to -0.12) for LDL, a reduction of 0.12 mmol/L (95%CI: -0.20 to -0.04) for fasting glucose, 1.85 mmHg reduction (95%CI: -3.30 to -0.40) for SBP, and a reduction of 1.49 mmHg (95%CI: -2.39 to -0.58) for DBP. Sibutramine only showed effects on weight loss and triglycerides reduction with statistical significances. Rimonabant was associated with statistically significant effects on weight loss, SBP reduction and DBP reduction. No other significantly different effects were identified between anti-obesity therapy and placebo. CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: We identified that anti-obesity therapy was associated with a decrease of weight regardless of the type of the drug. Orlistat and rimonabant could lead to an improvement on cardiovascular risk factors. However, Sibutramine may have a direct effect on cardiovascular risk factors.			2012				1520
Effects of combined aspirin and clopidogrel therapy on cardiovascular outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Zhou, Y. H., Wei, X., Lu, J., Ye, X. F., Wu, M. J., Xu, J. F., Qin, Y. Y. and He, J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Aspirin and clopidogrel monotherapies are effective treatments for preventing vascular disease. However, new evidence has emerged regarding the use of combined aspirin and clopidogrel therapy to prevent cardiovascular events. We therefore performed a comprehensive systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the benefits and harms of combined aspirin and clopidogrel therapy on major cardiovascular outcomes. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We systematically searched Medline, Embase, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, reference lists of articles, and proceedings of major meetings to identify studies to fit our analysis. Eligible studies were randomized controlled trials assessing the effect of combined aspirin and clopidogrel therapy compared with aspirin or clopidogrel monotherapy. We identified 7 trials providing data with a total of 48248 patients. These studies reported 5134 major cardiovascular events, 1626 myocardial infarctions, 1927 strokes, and 1147 major bleeding events. Overall, the addition of aspirin to clopidogrel therapy as compared to single drug therapy resulted in a 9% RR reduction (95%CI, 2 to 17) in major cardiovascular events, 14% RR reduction (95%CI, 3 to 24) in myocardial infarction, 16% RR reduction (95%CI, 1 to 28) in stroke, and 62% RR increase (95%CI, 26 to 108) in major bleeding events. We also present the data as ARR to explore net value as the reduction in cardiovascular events. Overall, we observed that combined therapy yielded 1.06% decrease (95%CI, 0.23% to 1.99%) in major cardiovascular events and 1.23% increase (95%CI, 0.52% to 2.14%) in major bleeding events. CONCLUSION/SIGNIFICANCE: Although the addition of aspirin to clopidogrel resulted in small relative reductions in major cardiovascular events, myocardial infarction, and stroke, it also resulted in a relative increase in major bleeding events. In absolute terms the benefits of combined therapy, a 1.06% reduction in major cardiovascular events, does not outweigh the harms, a 1.23% increase in major bleeding events.			2012				1365
Conservative interventions for incontinence in people with dementia or cognitive impairment, living at home: a systematic review		Drennan, V. M., Greenwood, N., Cole, L., Fader, M., Grant, R., Rait, G. and Iliffe, S.				bmc geriatrics	bmc geriatrics	BACKGROUND: Dementia is a distressing and disabling illness with worldwide estimates of increased numbers of people with the condition. Two thirds of people with dementia live at home and policies in many countries seek to support more people for longer in this setting. Incontinence both contributes to carer burden and is also a significant factor in the decision to move into care homes. A review was conducted for evidence of effectiveness for conservative interventions, which are non-pharmacological and non-surgical interventions, for the prevention or management of incontinence in community dwelling people with dementia. METHOD: Fourteen electronic databases were searched, including MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL (from inception to 2012). Assessments of risk of bias were made. Meta-analysis was inappropriate due to the heterogeneity of the interventions and outcome measurements. A narrative analysis was undertaken. RESULTS: From 427 identified abstracts, 56 studies were examined but only three met the inclusion criteria, all more than a decade old. All three focused on urinary incontinence. Two studies were exploratory or pilot studies. All had a control arm. The interventions were of advice for the carer to implement. Two included toileting education of prompted voiding or an individualised toileting schedule. There was insufficient evidence to support or rule out effectiveness of any of these interventions. Some interventions were unacceptable for some carers. None specifically reported the perspective of the person with dementia. CONCLUSIONS: There was insufficient evidence from any studies to recommend any strategies. There remains an urgent need for both research and also clinical guidance for health professionals tailored to community settings where the majority of people with dementia live.			2012				1978
Risk of venous thromboembolism in patients with cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Horsted, F., West, J. and Grainge, M. J.				plos medicine	plos medicine	BACKGROUND: People with cancer are known to be at increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE), and this risk is believed to vary according to cancer type, stage of disease, and treatment modality. Our purpose was to summarise the existing literature to determine precisely and accurately the absolute risk of VTE in cancer patients, stratified by malignancy site and background risk of VTE. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We searched the Medline and Embase databases from 1 January 1966 to 14 July 2011 to identify cohort studies comprising people diagnosed with one of eight specified cancer types or where participants were judged to be representative of all people with cancer. For each included study, the number of patients who developed clinically apparent VTE, and the total person-years of follow-up were extracted. Incidence rates of VTE were pooled across studies using the generic inverse variance method. In total, data from 38 individual studies were included. Among average-risk patients, the overall risk of VTE was estimated to be 13 per 1,000 person-years (95% CI, 7 to 23), with the highest risk among patients with cancers of the pancreas, brain, and lung. Among patients judged to be at high risk (due to metastatic disease or receipt of high-risk treatments), the risk of VTE was 68 per 1,000 person-years (95% CI, 48 to 96), with the highest risk among patients with brain cancer (200 per 1,000 person-years; 95% CI, 162 to 247). Our results need to be considered in light of high levels of heterogeneity, which exist due to differences in study population, outcome definition, and average duration of follow-up between studies. CONCLUSIONS: VTE occurs in greater than 1% of cancer patients each year, but this varies widely by cancer type and time since diagnosis. The absolute VTE risks obtained from this review can aid in clinical decision-making about which people with cancer should receive anticoagulant prophylaxis and at what times.			2012				1835
Hemoglobin targets for chronic kidney disease patients with anemia: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Jing, Z., Wei-jie, Y., Nan, Z., Yi, Z. and Ling, W.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Numerous studies have identified a relationship between hemoglobin (Hb) levels and mortality in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), which have raised concerns about the optimal Hb targets in correction of anemia. Our study is designed to investigate the potential effects of targeted Hb levels, aiming to give some evidence for therapy of renal anemia. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A comprehensive search of Medline, Embase and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews was performed in December 2011 and updated in February 2012 for any new trials. Randomized trials designed to evaluate effects of high (generally the Hb about 13.0 g/dL) and low Hb (generally the Hb about 10.0 g/dL) targets on clinical outcomes in CKD patients with anemia were collected. All statistical analysis was calculated using the RevMan software available free from the Cochrane Collaboration. 24 trials involving 10361 patients were identified. Our findings demonstrated a statistically significant increased risk of mortality in the high Hb levels (RR 1.18; 95% CI 1.02 to 1.37) while the high and low Hb groups were both treated with ESAs. Overall, compared with low Hb levels, high Hb levels are associated with increased risk of hypertension (RR 1.40; 95% CI 1.11 to 1.75), stroke (RR 1.73; 95% CI 1.31 to 2.29), and hospitalizations (RR 1.07; 95% CI 1.01 to 1.14). However, there are no significant differences in the risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction (RR 1. 13; 95% CI 0.79 to 1.61) and renal replacement therapy (RR 1. 00; 95% CI 0.85 to 1.18). CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCES: Targeting low Hb levels are beneficial to CKD patients especially in the predialysis population. The optimal Hb targets to aim for in CKD patients and at what Hb level the risks of adverse events begin to increase remain elusive. Future studies are still needed to elucidate these questions.			2012				1733
Childbirth attendance strategies and their impact on maternal mortality and morbidity in low-income settings: a systematic review		Pyone, T., Sorensen, B. L. and Tellier, S.				acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica	acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica	"OBJECTIVE: To review quantitative evidence of the effect on maternal health of different childbirth attendance strategies in low-income settings. DESIGN: Systematic review. METHODS: Studies using quantitative methods, referring to the period 1987-2011, written in English and reporting the impact of childbirth attendance strategies on maternal mortality or morbidity in low-income settings were included. Guidelines developed by the Cochrane collaboration and the Centre for Review and Dissemination, University of York were followed. The included articles were read and sorted by category of strategy that emerged from the reading. RESULTS: The search criteria yielded 29 articles. The following three main categories of strategy emerged: (i) those primarily intended to improve quality of care; (ii) ""centrifugal strategies,"" which sought to bring services to the women; and (iii) ""centripetal strategies,"" which sought to bring the women to the services. Few of the studies had a design that provided strong evidence for the impact of the strategy concerned. CONCLUSIONS: The evidence emerging from the studies was difficult to compare, because concepts were not defined in a consistent manner (such as ""skilled birth attendance"") and many studies examined the impact of a package of interventions without ferreting out the impact of individual components. Yet, some studies described individual aspects with great promise (such as cost, transport, outreach-friendly drugs or targeted training). There is a need for clearer conceptual frameworks, including some which permit assessment of packages of interventions."			2012				1403
No evidence of the effect of the interventions to combat health care fraud and abuse: a systematic review of literature		Rashidian, A., Joudaki, H. and Vian, T.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Despite the importance of health care fraud and the political, legislative and administrative attentions paid to it, combating fraud remains a challenge to the health systems. We aimed to identify, categorize and assess the effectiveness of the interventions to combat health care fraud and abuse. METHODS: The interventions to combat health care fraud can be categorized as the interventions for 'prevention' and 'detection' of fraud, and 'response' to fraud. We conducted sensitive search strategies on Embase, CINAHL, and PsycINFO from 1975 to 2008, and Medline from 1975-2010, and on relevant professional and organizational websites. Articles assessing the effectiveness of any intervention to combat health care fraud were eligible for inclusion in our review. We considered including the interventional studies with or without a concurrent control group. Two authors assessed the studies for inclusion, and appraised the quality of the included studies. As a limited number of studies were found, we analyzed the data using narrative synthesis. FINDINGS: The searches retrieved 2229 titles, of which 221 full-text studies were assessed. We found no studies using an RCT design. Only four original articles (from the US and Taiwan) were included: two studies within the detection category, one in the response category, one under the detection and response categories, and no studies under the prevention category. The findings suggest that data-mining may improve fraud detection, and legal interventions as well as investment in anti-fraud activities may reduce fraud. DISCUSSION: Our analysis shows a lack of evidence of effect of the interventions to combat health care fraud. Further studies using robust research methodologies are required in all aspects of dealing with health care fraud and abuse, assessing the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of methods to prevent, detect, and respond to fraud in health care.			2012				1941
Can selected patients with newly diagnosed pulmonary embolism be safely treated without hospitalization? A systematic review		Vinson, D. R., Zehtabchi, S. and Yealy, D. M.				annals of emergency medicine	annals of emergency medicine	STUDY OBJECTIVE: Omitting inpatient therapy for emergency department patients with newly diagnosed pulmonary embolism occurs infrequently in the United States. We seek to describe the safety of initial outpatient management of these patients and their demographics, comorbidities, risk stratification, treatment, and outcomes. METHODS: We identified studies from searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, and other databases from inception through March 22, 2012. We supplemented this with a search of conference proceedings and consultation with experts. We selected prospective studies of adults with acute, symptomatic, objectively confirmed pulmonary embolism who were discharged home without hospitalization. All contributing studies explicitly defined inclusion and exclusion criteria plus objectively confirmed outcome measures: recurrent thromboembolism, major hemorrhage, and mortality. Two investigators independently identified eligible studies and extracted data. We used the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) criteria to assess study quality. RESULTS: From 2,286 screened titles/abstracts, we selected 8 studies with a total of 777 patients. Seven observational studies were rated low in quality. The one randomized controlled trial was higher in quality, used stricter inclusion criteria, and found that 90-day outcomes for outpatient management were not inferior to inpatient care. Among the 7 studies that reported 90-day outcome measures, the overall incidence of venous thromboembolic-related and hemorrhage-related mortality was very low: 0 of 741 (upper 95% confidence limit 0.62%). CONCLUSION: The data on exclusive outpatient management of acute symptomatic pulmonary embolism are limited, but the existing evidence supports the feasibility and safety of this approach in carefully selected low-risk patients.			2012				1836
Strategies for delivering insecticide-treated nets at scale for malaria control: a systematic review		Willey, B. A., Paintain, L. S., Mangham, L., Car, J. and Schellenberg, J. A.				bulletin of the world health organization	bulletin of the world health organization	Objective To synthesize findings from recent studies of strategies to deliver insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) at scale in malaria-endemic areas. Methods Databases were searched for studies published between January 2000 and December 2010 in which: subjects resided in areas with endemicity for Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax malaria; ITN delivery at scale was evaluated; ITN ownership among households, receipt by pregnant women and/or use among children aged < 5 years was evaluated; and the study design was an individual or cluster-randomized controlled design, nonrandomized, quasi-experimental, before-and-after, interrupted time series or cross-sectional without temporal or geographical controls. Papers describing qualitative studies, case studies, process evaluations and cost-effectiveness studies linked to an eligible paper were also included. Study quality was assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias checklist and GRADE criteria. Important influences on scaling up were identified and assessed across delivery strategies. Findings A total of 32 papers describing 20 African studies were reviewed. Many delivery strategies involved health sectors and retail outlets (partial subsidy), antenatal care clinics (full subsidy) and campaigns (full subsidy). Strategies achieving high ownership among households and use among children < 5 delivered ITNs free through campaigns. Costs were largely comparable across strategies; ITNs were the main cost. Cost-effectiveness estimates were most sensitive to the assumed net lifespan and leakage. Common barriers to delivery included cost, stock-outs and poor logistics. Common facilitators were staff training and supervision, cooperation across departments or ministries and stakeholder involvement. Conclusion There is a broad taxonomy of strategies for delivering ITNs at scale.			2012				1823
Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral for Alcohol Use in Adolescents: A Systematic Review		Yuma-Guerrero, P. J., Lawson, K. A., Velasquez, M. M., von Sternberg, K., Maxson, T. and Garcia, N.				pediatrics	pediatrics	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Alcohol use by adolescents is widespread and is connected to a number of negative health and social outcomes. Adolescents receiving emergent care for injuries are often linked with risky use of alcohol. The trauma system has widely adopted the use of screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment (SBIRT) for preventing alcohol-related injury recidivism and other negative outcomes. The purpose of this article is to review the evidence around SBIRT with adolescent patients in acute care settings. METHODS: This article reviews 7 randomized controlled trials evaluating risky drinking interventions among adolescent patients in acute care settings. All studies took place in the emergency departments of level I trauma centers. RESULTS: Four of the 7 studies reviewed demonstrated a significant intervention effect; however, no one intervention reduced both alcohol consumption and alcohol-related consequences. Two of these 4 studies only included patients ages 18 and older. Subgroup analyses with adolescents engaged in risky alcohol-related behaviors, conducted in 2 of the studies, showed significant intervention effects. Five studies showed positive consumption and/or consequences for all study participants regardless of condition, suggesting that an emergent injury and/or the screening process may have a protective effect. CONCLUSIONS: Based on existing evidence, it is not clear whether SBIRT is an effective approach to risky alcohol use among adolescent patients in acute care. Additional research is needed around interventions and implementation.			2012				1799
Risk of cardiovascular disease from antiretroviral therapy for HIV: a systematic review		Bavinger, C., Bendavid, E., Niehaus, K., Olshen, R. A., Olkin, I., Sundaram, V., Wein, N., Holodniy, M., Hou, N., Owens, D. K. and Desai, M.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Recent studies suggest certain antiretroviral therapy (ART) drugs are associated with increases in cardiovascular disease. PURPOSE: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to summarize the available evidence, with the goal of elucidating whether specific ART drugs are associated with an increased risk of myocardial infarction (MI). DATA SOURCES: We searched Medline, Web of Science, the Cochrane Library, and abstract archives from the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections and International AIDS Society up to June 2011 to identify published articles and abstracts. STUDY SELECTION: Eligible studies were comparative and included MI, strokes, or other cardiovascular events as outcomes. DATA EXTRACTION: Eligibility screening, data extraction, and quality assessment were performed independently by two investigators. DATA SYNTHESIS: Random effects methods and Fisher's combined probability test were used to summarize evidence. FINDINGS: Twenty-seven studies met inclusion criteria, with 8 contributing to a formal meta-analysis. Findings based on two observational studies indicated an increase in risk of MI for patients recently exposed (usually defined as within last 6 months) to abacavir (RR 1.92, 95% CI 1.51-2.42) and protease inhibitors (PI) (RR 2.13, 95% CI 1.06-4.28). Our analysis also suggested an increased risk associated with each additional year of exposure to indinavir (RR 1.11, 95% CI 1.05-1.17) and lopinavir (RR 1.22, 95% CI 1.01-1.47). Our findings of increased cardiovascular risk from abacavir and PIs were in contrast to four published meta-analyses based on secondary analyses of randomized controlled trials, which found no increased risk from cardiovascular disease. CONCLUSION: Although observational studies implicated specific drugs, the evidence is mixed. Further, meta-analyses of randomized trials did not find increased risk from abacavir and PIs. Our findings that implicate specific ARTs in the observational setting provide sufficient evidence to warrant further investigation of this relationship in studies designed for that purpose.			2013				2975
Key components of early intervention programs for preterm infants and their parents: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Benzies, K. M., Magill-Evans, J. E., Hayden, K. A. and Ballantyne, M.				bmc pregnancy and childbirth	bmc pregnancy and childbirth	BACKGROUND: Preterm infants are at greater risk for neurodevelopmental disabilities than full term infants. Interventions supporting parents to improve the quality of the infant's environment should improve developmental outcomes for preterm infants. Many interventions that involve parents do not measure parental change, nor is it clear which intervention components are associated with improved parental outcomes. The aim of this review was to categorize the key components of early intervention programs and determine the direct effects of components on parents, as well as their preterm infants. METHODS: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, ERIC, and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews were searched between 1990 and December 2011. Eligible randomized controlled trials (RCTs) included an early intervention for preterm infants, involved parents, and had a community component. Of 2465 titles and abstracts identified, 254 full text articles were screened, and 18 met inclusion criteria. Eleven of these studies reported maternal outcomes of stress, anxiety, depressive symptoms, self-efficacy, and sensitivity/responsiveness in interactions with the infant. Meta-analyses using a random effects model were conducted with these 11 studies. RESULTS: Interventions employed multiple components categorized as (a) psychosocial support, (b) parent education, and/or (c) therapeutic developmental interventions targeting the infant. All interventions used some form of parenting education. The reporting quality of most trials was adequate, and the risk of bias was low based on the Cochrane Collaboration tool. Meta-analyses demonstrated limited effects of interventions on maternal stress (Z = 0.40, p = 0.69) and sensitivity/responsiveness (Z = 1.84, p = 0.07). There were positive pooled effects of interventions on maternal anxiety (Z = 2.54, p = 0.01), depressive symptoms (Z = 4.04, p <.0001), and self-efficacy (Z = 2.05, p = 0.04). CONCLUSIONS: Positive and clinically meaningful effects of early interventions were seen in some psychosocial aspects of mothers of preterm infants. This review was limited by the heterogeneity of outcome measures and inadequate reporting of statistics. IMPLICATIONS OF KEY FINDINGS: Interventions for preterm infants and their mothers should consider including psychosocial support for mothers. If the intervention involves mothers, outcomes for both mothers and preterm infants should be measured to better understand the mechanisms for change.			2013				3138
Vitamin D and Respiratory Tract Infections: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials		Bergman, P., Lindh, A. U., Björkhem-Bergman, L. and Lindh, J. D.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Low levels of 25-OH vitamin D are associated with respiratory tract infection (RTI). However, results from randomized controlled trials are inconclusive. Therefore, we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the preventive effect of vitamin D supplementation on RTI. METHODS: Randomized, controlled trials of vitamin D for prevention of RTI were used for the analysis. The risks of within-trial and publication bias were assessed. Odds ratios of RTI were pooled using a random-effects model. Heterogeneity was assessed using Cochran's Q and I(2). Meta-regressions and subgroup analyses were used to assess the influence of various factors on trial outcome. The pre-defined review protocol was registered at the PROSPERO international prospective register of systematic reviews, registration number CRD42013003530. FINDINGS: Of 1137 citations retrieved, 11 placebo-controlled studies of 5660 patients were included in the meta-analysis. Overall, vitamin D showed a protective effect against RTI (OR, 0.64; 95% CI, 0.49 to 0.84). There was significant heterogeneity among studies (Cohran's Q p<0.0001, I(2)?=?72%). The protective effect was larger in studies using once-daily dosing compared to bolus doses (OR?=?0.51 vs OR?=?0.86, p?=?0.01). There was some evidence that results may have been influenced by publication bias. INTERPRETATION: Results indicate that vitamin D has a protective effect against RTI, and dosing once-daily seems most effective. Due to heterogeneity of included studies and possible publication bias in the field, these results should be interpreted with caution.			2013				2749
Community health workers and mobile technology: a systematic review of the literature		Braun, R., Catalani, C., Wimbush, J. and Israelski, D.				plos one	plos one	INTRODUCTION: In low-resource settings, community health workers are frontline providers who shoulder the health service delivery burden. Increasingly, mobile technologies are developed, tested, and deployed with community health workers to facilitate tasks and improve outcomes. We reviewed the evidence for the use of mobile technology by community health workers to identify opportunities and challenges for strengthening health systems in resource-constrained settings. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of peer-reviewed literature from health, medical, social science, and engineering databases, using PRISMA guidelines. We identified a total of 25 unique full-text research articles on community health workers and their use of mobile technology for the delivery of health services. RESULTS: Community health workers have used mobile tools to advance a broad range of health aims throughout the globe, particularly maternal and child health, HIV/AIDS, and sexual and reproductive health. Most commonly, community health workers use mobile technology to collect field-based health data, receive alerts and reminders, facilitate health education sessions, and conduct person-to-person communication. Programmatic efforts to strengthen health service delivery focus on improving adherence to standards and guidelines, community education and training, and programmatic leadership and management practices. Those studies that evaluated program outcomes provided some evidence that mobile tools help community health workers to improve the quality of care provided, efficiency of services, and capacity for program monitoring. DISCUSSION: Evidence suggests mobile technology presents promising opportunities to improve the range and quality of services provided by community health workers. Small-scale efforts, pilot projects, and preliminary descriptive studies are increasing, and there is a trend toward using feasible and acceptable interventions that lead to positive program outcomes through operational improvements and rigorous study designs. Programmatic and scientific gaps will need to be addressed by global leaders as they advance the use and assessment of mobile technology tools for community health workers.			2013				2969
Interventions for preschool children at high risk for ADHD: a comparative effectiveness review		Charach, A., Carson, P., Fox, S., Ali, M. U., Beckett, J. and Lim, C. G.				pediatrics	pediatrics	"OBJECTIVES: The US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality sponsored a comparative effectiveness review of interventions for preschoolers at risk for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). METHODS: Medline, Cochrane CENTRAL, Embase, PsycInfo, and Education Resources Information Center were searched from 1980 to November 24, 2011. Selected studies were comparative, and enrolled children <6 years with clinically significant disruptive behavior, including ADHD. The interventions evaluated were parent behavior training (PBT), combined home and school/day care interventions, and methylphenidate use. Data were extracted by using customized software. Two independent raters evaluated studies as good, fair, or poor by using the Effective Public Health Practice Project Quality Assessment Tool for Quantitative Studies Risk of Bias. Overall strength of evidence (SOE) was rated for each intervention's effectiveness, accounting for study design, systematic error, consistency of results, directness of evidence, and certainty regarding outcome. RESULTS: Fifty-five studies were examined. Only studies examining PBT interventions could be pooled statistically using meta-analysis. Eight ""good"" studies examined PBT, total n = 424; SOE was high for improved child behavior, standardized mean difference = -0.68 (95% confidence interval: -0.88 to -0.47), with minimal heterogeneity among studies. Only 1 good study evaluated methylphenidate, total n = 114; therefore, SOE for methylphenidate was low. Combined home and school/day care interventions showed inconsistent results. The literature reported adverse effects for methylphenidate but not for PBT. CONCLUSIONS: With more studies consistently documenting effectiveness, PBT interventions have greater evidence of effectiveness than methylphenidate for treatment of preschoolers at risk for ADHD."			2013				3882
A systematic review and meta-analysis of the use of oral zinc in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy		Chavez-Tapia, N. C., Cesar-Arce, A., Barrientos-Gutiérrez, T., Villegas-López, F. A., Méndez-Sanchez, N. and Uribe, M.				nutrition journal	nutrition journal	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Because low serum zinc levels precipitate hepatic encephalopathy, zinc supplementation is considered a potential therapeutic option. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of oral zinc supplementation in the treatment of hepatic encephalopathy. METHODS: For this systematic review and meta-analysis, data sources included electronic databases (CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE) and manual searching. Randomized clinical trials of adult patients diagnosed with liver cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy were included. The types of interventions considered were any oral zinc supplementation versus no intervention, placebo, or other interventions for the management of hepatic encephalopathy. The data were analyzed by calculating the RR for each trial and expressing the uncertainty as 95% CI. Continuous data were analyzed by calculating the standard mean differences (SMD) between groups within each trial and their 95% CI. Statistical heterogeneity was defined as a P-value > 0.10 (?2) or I2 > 25%. RESULTS: Four trials with a total of 233 patients were included. Oral zinc supplementation was associated with a significant improvement in performance on the number connection test (SMD -0.62; 95% CI -1.12 to -0.11) reported in three trials (n = 189), but not with encephalopathy recurrence reduction (RR 0.64; 95% CI 0.26 to 1.59) reported in two trials (n = 169). Other clinically significant outcomes (mortality, liver related morbidity, quality of life) were not reported. CONCLUSION: Oral zinc supplementation improved performance on the number connection test, but no evidence about other clinical or biochemical outcomes was available.			2013				3119
The effects of calcium channel blockers in the prevention of stroke in adults with hypertension: a meta-analysis of data from 273,543 participants in 31 randomized controlled trials		Chen, G. J. and Yang, M. S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Hypertension is a major risk factor for the development of stroke. It is well known that lowering blood pressure decreases the risk of stroke in people with moderate to severe hypertension. However, the specific effects of calcium channel blockers (CCBs) against stroke in patients with hypertension as compared to no treatment and other antihypertensive drug classes are not known. METHODS AND FINDINGS: This systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluated CCBs effect on stroke in patients with hypertension in studies of CCBs versus placebo, angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), ?-adrenergic blockers, and diuretics. The PUBMED, MEDLINE, EMBASE, OVID, CNKI, MEDCH, and WANFANG databases were searched for trials published in English or Chinese during the period January 1, 1996 to July 31, 2012. A total of 177 reports were collected, among them 31 RCTs with 273,543 participants (including 130,466 experimental subjects and 143,077 controls) met the inclusion criteria. In these trials a total of 9,550 stroke events (4,145 in experimental group and 5,405 in control group) were reported. CCBs significantly decreased the incidence of stroke compared with placebo (OR = 0.68, 95% CI 0.61-0.75, p<1×10(-5)), ?-adrenergic blockers combined with diuretics (OR = 0.89, 95% CI 0.83-0.95, p = 7×10(-5)) and ?-adrenergic blockers (OR = 0.79, 95% CI 0.72-0.87, p<1×10(-5)), statistically significant difference was not found between CCBs and ACEIs (OR = 0.92, 95% CI 0.8-1.02, p = 0.12) or diuretics (OR = 0.95, 95% CI 0.84-1.07, p = 0.39). CONCLUSION: In a pooled analysis of data of 31 RCTs measuring the effect of CCBs on stroke, CCBs reduced stroke more than placebo and ?-adrenergic blockers, but were not different than ACEIs and diuretics. More head to head RCTs are warranted.			2013				3997
Carbohydrates and exercise performance in non-fasted athletes: a systematic review of studies mimicking real-life		Colombani, P. C., Mannhart, C. and Mettler, S.				nutrition journal	nutrition journal	There is a consensus claiming an ergogenic effect of carbohydrates ingested in the proximity of or during a performance bout. However, in performance studies, the protocols that are used are often highly standardized (e.g. fasted subjects, constant exercise intensity with time-to-exhaustion tests), and do not necessarily reflect competitive real-life situations. Therefore, we aimed at systematically summarizing all studies with a setting mimicking the situation of a real-life competition (e.g., subjects exercising in the postprandial state and with time-trial-like performance tests such as fixed distance or fixed time tests). We performed a PubMed search by using a selection of search terms covering inclusion criteria for sport, athletes, carbohydrates, and fluids, and exclusion criteria for diseases and animals. This search yielded 16,658 articles and the abstract of 16,508 articles contained sufficient information to identify the study as non-eligible for this review. The screening of the full text of the remaining 150 articles yielded 17 articles that were included in this review. These articles described 22 carbohydrate interventions covering test durations from 26 to 241 min (mostly cycling). We observed no performance improvement with half of the carbohydrate interventions, while the other half of the interventions had significant improvement between 1% and 13% (improvement with one of five interventions lasting up to 68 min and with 10 of 17 interventions lasting between 70 and 241 min). Thus, when considering only studies with a setting mimicking real-life competition, there is a mixed general picture about the ergogenic effect of carbohydrates ingested in the proximity of or during a performance bout with an unlikely effect with bouts up to perhaps 70 min and a possible but not compelling ergogenic effect with performance durations longer than about 70 min.			2013				3461
Nutritional strategies of physically active subjects with muscle dysmorphia		Contesini, N., Adami, F., Blake, Md, Monteiro, C. B., Abreu, L. C., Valenti, V. E., Almeida, F. S., Luciano, A. P., Cardoso, M. A., Benedet, J., de Assis Guedes de Vasconcelos, F., Leone, C. and Frainer, D. E.				international archives of medicine	international archives of medicine	BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to identify dietary strategies for physically active individuals with muscle dysmorphia based on a systematic literature review. METHOD: References were included if the study population consisted of adults over 18 years old who were physically active in fitness centers. We identified reports through an electronic search ofScielo, Lilacs and Medline using the following keywords: muscle dysmorphia, vigorexia, distorted body image, and exercise. We found eight articles in Scielo, 17 in Medline and 12 in Lilacs. Among the total number of 37 articles, only 17 were eligible for inclusion in this review. RESULTS: The results indicated that the feeding strategies used by physically active individuals with muscle dysmorphia did not include planning or the supervision of a nutritionist. Diet included high protein and low fat foods and the ingestion of dietary and ergogenic supplements to reduce weight. CONCLUSION: Physically active subjects with muscle dysmorphia could benefit from the help of nutritional professionals to evaluate energy estimation, guide the diet and its distribution in macronutrient and consider the principle of nutrition to functional recovery of the digestive process, promote liver detoxification, balance and guide to organic adequate intake of supplemental nutrients and other substances.			2013				3761
The effect of complex interventions on depression and anxiety in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: systematic review and meta-analysis		Coventry, P. A., Bower, P., Keyworth, C., Kenning, C., Knopp, J., Garrett, C., Hind, D., Malpass, A. and Dickens, C.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Depression and anxiety are very common in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and are associated with excess morbidity and mortality. Patients prefer non-drug treatments and clinical guidelines promote non-pharmacological interventions as first line therapy for depression and anxiety in people with long term conditions. However the comparative effectiveness of psychological and lifestyle interventions among COPD patients is not known. We assessed whether complex psychological and/or lifestyle interventions are effective in reducing symptoms of anxiety and depression in patients with COPD. We then determined what types of psychological and lifestyle interventions are most effective. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Systematic review of randomised controlled trials of psychological and/or lifestyle interventions for adults with COPD that measured symptoms of depression and/or anxiety. CENTRAL, Medline, Embase, PsychINFO, CINAHL, ISI Web of Science and Scopus were searched up to April 2012. Meta-analyses using random effects models were undertaken to estimate the average effect of interventions on depression and anxiety. Thirty independent comparisons from 29 randomised controlled trials (n = 2063) were included in the meta-analysis. Overall, psychological and/or lifestyle interventions were associated with small reductions in symptoms of depression (standardised mean difference -0.28, 95% confidence interval -0.41 to -0.14) and anxiety (standardised mean difference -0.23, 95% confidence interval -0.38 to -0.09). Multi-component exercise training was the only intervention subgroup associated with significant treatment effects for depression (standardised mean difference -0.47, 95% confidence interval -0.66 to -0.28), and for anxiety (standardised mean difference -0.45, 95% confidence interval -0.71 to -0.18). CONCLUSIONS: Complex psychological and/or lifestyle interventions that include an exercise component significantly improve symptoms of depression and anxiety in people with COPD. Furthermore, multi-component exercise training effectively reduces symptoms of anxiety and depression in all people with COPD regardless of severity of depression or anxiety, highlighting the importance of promoting physical activity in this population.			2013				3154
Impact of geriatric consultation teams on clinical outcome in acute hospitals: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Deschodt, M., Flamaing, J., Haentjens, P., Boonen, S. and Milisen, K.				bmc medicine	bmc medicine	BACKGROUND: Comprehensive geriatric assessment for older patients admitted to dedicated wards has proven to be beneficial, but the impact of comprehensive geriatric assessment delivered by mobile inpatient geriatric consultation teams remains unclear. This review and meta-analysis aims to determine the impact of inpatient geriatric consultation teams on clinical outcomes of interest in older adults. METHODS: An electronic search of Medline, CINAHL, EMBASE, Web of Science and Invert for English, French and Dutch articles was performed from inception to June 2012. Three independent reviewers selected prospective cohort studies assessing functional status, readmission rate, mortality or length of stay in adults aged 60 years or older. Twelve studies evaluating 4,546 participants in six countries were identified. Methodological quality of the included studies was assessed with the Methodological Index for Non-Randomized Studies. RESULTS: The individual studies show that an inpatient geriatric consultation team intervention has favorable effects on functional status, readmission and mortality rate. None of the studies found an effect on the length of the hospital stay. The meta-analysis found a beneficial effect of the intervention with regard to mortality rate at 6 months (relative risk 0.66; 95% confidence interval 0.52 to 0.85) and 8 months (relative risk 0.51; confidence interval 0.31 to 0.85) after hospital discharge. CONCLUSIONS: Inpatient geriatric consultation team interventions have a significant impact on mortality rate at 6 and 8 months postdischarge, but have no significant impact on functional status, readmission or length of stay. The reason for the lack of effect on these latter outcomes may be due to insufficient statistical power or the insensitivity of the measuring method for, for example, functional status. The questions of to whom IGCT intervention should be targeted and what can be achieved remain unanswered and require further research.TRIAL REGISTRATION: CRD42011001420 (http://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO).			2013				3503
Bone Marrow Stem Cell Treatment for Ischemic Heart Disease in Patients with No Option of Revascularization: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Fisher, S. A., Dorée, C., Brunskill, S. J., Mathur, A. and Martin-Rendon, E.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate bone marrow stem cell treatment (BMSC) in patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD) and no option of revascularization. BACKGROUND: Autologous BMSC therapy has emerged as a novel approach to treat patients with acute myocardial infarction or chronic ischemia and heart failure following percutaneous or surgical revascularization, respectively. However, the effect of the treatment has not been systematic evaluated in patients who are not eligible for revascularization. METHODS: MEDLINE (1950-2012), EMBASE (1980-2012), CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 8) and ongoing trial databases were searched for relevant randomized controlled trials. Trials where participants were diagnosed with IHD, with no option for revascularization and who received any dose of stem cells by any delivery route were selected for inclusion. Study and participant characteristics, details of the intervention and comparator, and outcomes measured were recorded by two reviewers independently. Primary outcome measures were defined as mortality and measures of angina; secondary outcomes were heart failure, quality of life measures, exercise/performance and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). RESULTS: Nine trials were eligible for inclusion. BMSC treatment significantly reduced the risk of mortality (Relative Risk 0.33; 95% Confidence Interval 0.17 to 0.65; P?=?0.001). Patients who received BMSC showed a significantly greater improvement in CCS angina class (Mean Difference -0.55; 95% Confidence Interval -1.00 to -0.10; P?=?0.02) and significantly fewer angina episodes per week at the end of the trial (Mean Difference -5.21; 95% Confidence Interval -7.35 to -3.07; P<0.00001) than those who received no BMSC. In addition, the treatment significantly improved quality of life, exercise/performance and LVEF in these patients. CONCLUSIONS: BMSC treatment has significant clinical benefit as stand-alone treatment in patients with IHD and no other treatment option. These results require confirmation in large well-powered trials with long-term follow-up to fully evaluate the clinical efficacy of this treatment.			2013				3619
Comparative effectiveness of interventions for children exposed to nonrelational traumatic events		Forman-Hoffman, V. L., Zolotor, A. J., McKeeman, J. L., Blanco, R., Knauer, S. R., Lloyd, S. W., Fraser, J. G. and Viswanathan, M.				pediatrics	pediatrics	OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of interventions targeting traumatic stress among children exposed to nonrelational traumatic events (eg, accidents, natural disasters, war). METHODS: We assessed research on psychological and pharmacological therapy as part of an Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality-commissioned comparative effectiveness review. We conducted focused searches of Medline, Cochrane Library, Embase, PsycINFO, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, and Web of Science. Two trained reviewers independently selected, extracted data from, and rated the risk of bias of relevant trials and systematic reviews. We used qualitative rather than quantitative analysis methods because of statistical heterogeneity, insufficient numbers of similar studies, and variation in outcome reporting. RESULTS: We found a total of 21 trials and 1 cohort study of medium or low risk of bias from our review of 6647 unduplicated abstracts. We generally did not find studies that attempted to replicate findings of effective interventions. In the short term, no pharmacotherapy intervention demonstrated efficacy, and only a few psychological treatments (each with elements of cognitive behavioral therapy) showed benefit. The body of evidence provides little insight into how interventions to treat children exposed to trauma might influence healthy long-term development. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings serve as a call to action: Psychotherapeutic intervention may be beneficial relative to no treatment in children exposed to traumatic events. Definitive guidance, however, requires far more research on the comparative effectiveness of interventions targeting children exposed to nonrelational traumatic events.			2013				3777
The effectiveness of mobile-health technologies to improve health care service delivery processes: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Free, C., Phillips, G., Watson, L., Galli, L., Felix, L., Edwards, P., Patel, V. and Haines, A.				plos medicine	plos medicine	BACKGROUND: Mobile health interventions could have beneficial effects on health care delivery processes. We aimed to conduct a systematic review of controlled trials of mobile technology interventions to improve health care delivery processes. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We searched for all controlled trials of mobile technology based health interventions using MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Global Health, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, UK NHS HTA (Jan 1990-Sept 2010). Two authors independently extracted data on allocation concealment, allocation sequence, blinding, completeness of follow-up, and measures of effect. We calculated effect estimates and we used random effects meta-analysis to give pooled estimates. We identified 42 trials. None of the trials had low risk of bias. Seven trials of health care provider support reported 25 outcomes regarding appropriate disease management, of which 11 showed statistically significant benefits. One trial reported a statistically significant improvement in nurse/surgeon communication using mobile phones. Two trials reported statistically significant reductions in correct diagnoses using mobile technology photos compared to gold standard. The pooled effect on appointment attendance using text message (short message service or SMS) reminders versus no reminder was increased, with a relative risk (RR) of 1.06 (95% CI 1.05-1.07, I(2)?=?6%). The pooled effects on the number of cancelled appointments was not significantly increased RR 1.08 (95% CI 0.89-1.30). There was no difference in attendance using SMS reminders versus other reminders (RR 0.98, 95% CI 0.94-1.02, respectively). To address the limitation of the older search, we also reviewed more recent literature. CONCLUSIONS: The results for health care provider support interventions on diagnosis and management outcomes are generally consistent with modest benefits. Trials using mobile technology-based photos reported reductions in correct diagnoses when compared to the gold standard. SMS appointment reminders have modest benefits and may be appropriate for implementation. High quality trials measuring clinical outcomes are needed. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.			2013				3160
The effect of computerized provider order entry systems on clinical care and work processes in emergency departments: a systematic review of the quantitative literature		Georgiou, A., Prgomet, M., Paoloni, R., Creswick, N., Hordern, A., Walter, S. and Westbrook, J.				annals of emergency medicine	annals of emergency medicine	STUDY OBJECTIVE: We undertake a systematic review of the quantitative literature related to the effect of computerized provider order entry systems in the emergency department (ED). METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, Inspec, CINAHL, and CPOE.org for English-language studies published between January 1990 and May 2011. RESULTS: We identified 1,063 articles, of which 22 met our inclusion criteria. Sixteen used a pre/post design; 2 were randomized controlled trials. Twelve studies reported outcomes related to patient flow/clinical work, 7 examined decision support systems, and 6 reported effects on patient safety. There were no studies that measured decision support systems and its effect on patient flow/clinical work. Computerized provider order entry was associated with an increase in time spent on computers (up to 16.2% for nurses and 11.3% for physicians), with no significant change in time spent on patient care. Computerized provider order entry with decision support systems was related to significant decreases in prescribing errors (ranging from 17 to 201 errors per 100 orders), potential adverse drug events (0.9 per 100 orders), and prescribing of excessive dosages (31% decrease for a targeted set of renal disease medications). CONCLUSION: There are tangible benefits associated with computerized provider order entry/decision support systems in the ED environment. Nevertheless, when considered as part of a framework of technical, clinical, and organizational components of the ED, the evidence base is neither consistent nor comprehensive. Multimethod research approaches (including qualitative research) can contribute to understanding of the multiple dimensions of ED care delivery, not as separate entities but as essential components of a highly integrated system of care.			2013				3242
Laparoscopic versus open peritoneal dialysis catheter insertion: a meta-analysis		Hagen, S. M., Lafranca, J. A., Steyerberg, E. W., ?zermans, J. N. and Dor, F. J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Peritoneal dialysis is an effective treatment for end-stage renal disease. Key to successful peritoneal dialysis is a well-functioning catheter. The different insertion techniques may be of great importance. Mostly, the standard operative approach is the open technique; however, laparoscopic insertion is increasingly popular. Catheter malfunction is reported up to 35% for the open technique and up to 13% for the laparoscopic technique. However, evidence is lacking to definitely conclude that the laparoscopic approach is to be preferred. This review and meta-analysis was carried out to investigate if one of the techniques is superior to the other. METHODS: Comprehensive searches were conducted in MEDLINE, Embase and CENTRAL (the Cochrane Library 2012, issue 10). Reference lists were searched manually. The methodology was in accordance with the Cochrane Handbook for interventional systematic reviews, and written based on the PRISMA-statement. RESULTS: Three randomized controlled trials and eight cohort studies were identified. Nine postoperative outcome measures were meta-analyzed; of these, seven were not different between operation techniques. Based on the meta-analysis, the proportion of migrating catheters was lower (odds ratio (OR) 0.21, confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.63; P?=?0.006), and the one-year catheter survival was higher in the laparoscopic group (OR 3.93, CI 1.80 to 8.57; P?=?0.0006). CONCLUSIONS: Based on these results there is some evidence in favour of the laparoscopic insertion technique for having a higher one-year catheter survival and less migration, which would be clinically relevant.			2013				3851
Prevention of contrast-induced acute kidney injury: is simple oral hydration similar to intravenous? A systematic review of the evidence		Hiremath, S., Akbari, A., Shabana, W., Fergusson, D. A. and Knoll, G. A.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Pre-procedural intravenous fluid administration is an effective prophylaxis measure for contrast-induced acute kidney injury. For logistical ease, the oral route is an alternative to the intravenous. The objective of this study was to compare the efficacy of the oral to the intravenous route in prevention of contrast-induced acute kidney injury. STUDY DESIGN: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised trials with a stratified analysis and metaregression. Databases included MEDLINE (1950 to November 23 2011), EMBASE (1947 to week 47 2011), Cochrane CENTRAL (3(rd) quarter 2011). Two reviewers identified relevant trials and abstracted data. SETTINGS AND POPULATION: Trials including patients undergoing a contrast enhanced procedure. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trial; adult (>18 years) population; comparison of oral versus intravenous volume expansion. INTERVENTION: Oral route of volume expansion compared to the intravenous route. OUTCOMES: Any measure of acute kidney injury, need for renal replacement therapy, hospitalization and death. RESULTS: Six trials including 513 patients met inclusion criteria. The summary odds ratio was 1.19 (95% CI 0.46, 3.10, p = 0.73) suggesting no difference between the two routes of volume expansion. There was significant heterogeneity (Cochran's Q = 11.65, p = 0.04; I(2) = 57). In the stratified analysis, inclusion of the five studies with a prespecified oral volume expansion protocol resulted in a shift towards oral volume expansion (OR 0.75, 95% CI 0.37, 1.50, p = 0.42) and also resolved the heterogeneity (Q = 3.19, P = 0.53; I(2) = 0). LIMITATIONS: Small number of studies identified; lack of hard clinical outcomes. CONCLUSION: The oral route may be as effective as the intravenous route for volume expansion for contrast-induced acute kidney injury prevention. Adequately powered trials with hard endpoints should be done given the potential advantages of oral (e.g. reduced patient burden and cost) over intravenous volume expansion.			2013				3142
Comparative efficacy of tandem autologous versus autologous followed by allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Kharfan-Dabaja, M. A., Hamadani, M., Reljic, T., Nishihori, T., Bensinger, W., Djulbegovic, B. and Kumar, A.				journal of hematology & oncology	journal of hematology & oncology	BACKGROUND: Despite advances in understanding of clinical, genetic, and molecular aspects of multiple myeloma (MM) and availability of more effective therapies, MM remains incurable. The autologous-allogeneic (auto-allo) hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) strategy is based on combining cytoreduction from high-dose (chemo- or chemoradio)-therapy with adoptive immunotherapy. However, conflicting results have been reported when an auto-allo HCT approach is compared to tandem autologous (auto-auto) HCT. A previously published meta-analysis has been reported; however, it suffers from serious methodological flaws. METHODS: A systematic search identified 152 publications, of which five studies (enrolling 1538 patients) met inclusion criteria. All studies eligible for inclusion utilized biologic randomization. RESULTS: Assessing response rates by achievement of at least a very good partial response did not differ among the treatment arms [risk ratio (RR) (95% CI)?=?0.97 (0.87-1.09), p?=?0.66]; but complete remission was higher in the auto-allo HCT arm [RR?=?1.65 (1.25-2.19), p?=?0.0005]. Event-free survival did not differ between auto-allo HCT group versus auto-auto HCT group using per-protocol analysis [hazard ratio (HR)?=?0.78 (0.58-1.05)), p?=?0.11] or using intention-to-treat analysis [HR?=?0.83 (0.60-1.15), p?=?0.26]. Overall survival (OS) did not differ among these treatment arms whether analyzed on per-protocol [HR?=?0.88 (0.33-2.35), p?=?0.79], or by intention-to-treat [HR?=?0.80 (0.48-1.32), p?=?0.39] analysis. Non-relapse mortality (NRM) was significantly worse with auto-allo HCT [RR (95%CI)?=?3.55 (2.17-5.80), p?<?0.00001]. CONCLUSION: Despite higher complete remission rates, there is no improvement in OS with auto-allo HCT; but this approach results in higher NRM in patients with newly diagnosed MM. At present, totality of evidence suggests that an auto-allo HCT approach for patients with newly diagnosed myeloma should not be offered outside the setting of a clinical trial.			2013				3664
Allergen-Specific Immunotherapy for Pediatric Asthma and Rhinoconjunctivitis: A Systematic Review		Kim, J. M., Lin, S. Y., Suarez-Cuervo, C., Chelladurai, Y., Ramanathan, M., Segal, J. B. and Erekosima, N.				pediatrics	pediatrics	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Subcutaneous immunotherapy (SCIT) is approved in the United States for the treatment of pediatric asthma and rhinitis; sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT) does not have regulatory approval but is used in clinical practice. The objective of this study was to systematically review the evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of SCIT and SLIT for the treatment of pediatric asthma and allergic rhinoconjunctivitis. METHODS: Two independent reviewers selected articles for inclusion, extracted data, and graded the strength of evidence for each clinical outcome. All studies were randomized controlled trials of children with allergic asthma or rhinoconjunctivitis treated with SCIT or an aqueous formulation of SLIT. Data sources were Medline, Embase, LILACS, CENTRAL, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials through May 2012. RESULTS: In 13 trials, 920 children received SCIT or usual care; in 18 studies, 1583 children received SLIT or usual care. Three studies compared SCIT with SLIT head-to-head in 135 children. The strength of evidence is moderate that SCIT improves asthma and rhinitis symptoms and low that SCIT improves conjunctivitis symptoms and asthma medication scores. Strength of evidence is high that SLIT improves asthma symptoms and moderate that SLIT improves rhinitis and conjunctivitis symptoms and decreases medication usage. The evidence is low to support SCIT over SUT for improving asthma or rhinitis symptoms or medication usage. Local reactions were frequent with SCIT and SLIT. There was 1 report of anaphylaxis with SCIT. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence supports the efficacy of both SCIT and SLIT for the treatment of asthma and rhinitis in children.			2013				3276
Early versus deferred androgen suppression therapy for patients with lymph node-positive prostate cancer after local therapy with curative intent: a systematic review		Kunath, F., Keck, B., Rücker, G., Motschall, E., Wullich, B., Antes, G. and Meerpohl, J. J.				bmc cancer	bmc cancer	BACKGROUND: There is currently no consensus regarding the optimal timing for androgen suppression therapy in patients with prostate cancer that have undergone local therapy with curative intent but are proven to have node-positive disease without signs of distant metastases at the time of local therapy. The objective of this systematic review was to determine the benefits and harms of early (at the time of local therapy) versus deferred (at the time of clinical disease progression) androgen suppression therapy for patients with node-positive prostate cancer after local therapy. METHODS: The protocol was registered prospectively (CRD42011001221; http://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO). We searched the MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CENTRAL databases, as well as reference lists, the abstracts of three major conferences, and three trial registers, to identify randomized controlled trials (search update 04/08/2012). Two authors independently screened the identified articles, assessed trial quality, and extracted data. RESULTS: Four studies including 398 patients were identified for inclusion. Early androgen suppression therapy lead to a significant decrease in overall mortality (HR 0.62, 95% CI 0.46-0.84), cancer-specific mortality (HR 0.34, 95% CI 0.18-0.64), and clinical progression at 3 or 9 years (RR 0.29, 95% CI 0.16-0.52 at 3 years and RR 0.49, 95% CI 0.36-0.67 at 9 years). One study showed an increase of adverse effects with early androgen suppression therapy. All trials had substantial methodological limitations. CONCLUSIONS: The data available suggest an improvement in survival and delayed disease progression but increased adverse events for patients with node-positive prostate cancer after local therapy treated with early androgen suppression therapy versus deferred androgen suppression therapy. However, quality of data is low. Randomized controlled trials with blinding of outcome assessment, planned to determine the timing of androgen suppression therapy in node-positive prostate cancer using modern diagnostic imaging modalities, biochemical testing, and standardized follow-up schedules should be conducted to confirm these findings.			2013				3235
Systematic review of HIV transmission between heterosexual serodiscordant couples where the HIV-positive partner is fully suppressed on antiretroviral therapy		Loutfy, M. R., Wu, W., Letchumanan, M., Bondy, L., Antoniou, T., Margolese, S., Zhang, Y., Rueda, S., McGee, F., Peck, R., Binder, L., Allard, P., Rourke, S. B. and Rochon, P. A.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The risk of sexual HIV transmission in serodiscordant couples when the HIV-positive partner has full virologic suppression on combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) is debated. This study aims to systematically review observational studies and randomized controlled trials (RCTs), evaluating rates of sexual HIV transmission between heterosexual serodiscordant couples when the HIV-positive partner has full suppression on cART. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We searched major bibliographic databases to November 2012 for relevant observational studies and RCTs without language restrictions. Conference proceedings, key journals and bibliographies were also searched. Studies reporting HIV transmission rates, cART histories and viral loads of the HIV-positive partners were included. Two reviewers extracted methodologic characteristics and outcomes. Of 20,252 citations, 3 studies met all eligibility criteria with confirmed full virologic suppression in the HIV-positive partner. We included 3 additional studies (2 cohort studies, 1 RCT) that did not confirm viral suppression in the HIV-positive partner at transmission in a secondary meta-analysis. Methodologic quality was reasonable. The rate of transmission in the 3 studies confirming virologic suppression was 0 per 100 person-years (95% CI?=?0-0.05), with low heterogeneity (I(2)?=?0%). When we included the 3 studies that did not confirm virologic suppression, the rate of transmission was 0.14 per 100 person-years (95%CI?=?0.04-0.31) (I(2)?=?0%). In a sensitivity analysis including all 6 studies, the rate of transmission was 0 per 100 person-years (95%CI?=?0-0.01) after omitting all transmissions with known detectable or unconfirmed viral loads, as full suppression in these cases was unlikely. Limitations included lack of data on same-sex couples, type of sexual intercourse (vaginal vs. anal), direction of HIV transmission, exact viral load at the time of transmission, sexually transmitted infections (STI) rates, and extent of condom use. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest minimal risk of sexual HIV transmission for heterosexual serodiscordant couples when the HIV-positive partner has full viral suppression on cART with caveats regarding information on sexual intercourse type, STIs, and condom use. These findings have implications when counseling heterosexual serodiscordant couples on sexual and reproductive health. More research is needed to explore HIV transmission risk between same-sex couples.			2013				3530
Effects of community participation on improving uptake of skilled care for maternal and newborn health: a systematic review		Marston, C., Renedo, A., McGowan, C. R. and Portela, A.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Despite a broad consensus that communities should be actively involved in improving their own health, evidence for the effect of community participation on specific health outcomes is limited. We examine the effectiveness of community participation interventions in maternal and newborn health, asking: did participation improve outcomes? We also look at how the impact of community participation has been assessed, particularly through randomised controlled trials, and make recommendations for future research. We highlight the importance of qualitative investigation, suggesting key areas for qualitative data reporting alongside quantitative work. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Systematic review of published and 'grey' literature from 1990. We searched 11 databases, and followed up secondary references. Main outcome measures were the use of skilled care before/during/after birth and maternal/newborn mortality/morbidity. We included qualitative and quantitative studies from any country, and used a community participation theoretical framework to analyse the data. We found 10 interventions. Community participation had largely positive impacts on maternal/newborn health as part of a package of interventions, although not necessarily on uptake of skilled care. Interventions improving mortality or use of skilled care raised awareness, encouraged dialogue and involved communities in designing solutions-but so did those showing no effect. DISCUSSION: There are few high-quality, quantitative studies. We also lack information about why participation interventions do/do not succeed - an area of obvious interest for programme designers. Qualitative investigation can help fill this information gap and should be at the heart of future quantitative research examining participation interventions - in maternal/newborn health, and more widely. This review illustrates the need for qualitative investigation alongside RCTs and other quantitative studies to understand complex interventions in context, describe predicted and unforeseen impacts, assess potential for generalisability, and capture the less easily measurable social/political effects of encouraging participation.			2013				3094
Therapeutic hypothermia for neonatal encephalopathy in low- and middle-income countries: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Pauliah, S. S., Shankaran, S., Wade, A., Cady, E. B. and Thayyil, S.				plos one	plos one	UNLABELLED: Although selective or whole body cooling combined with optimal intensive care improves outcomes following neonatal encephalopathy in high-income countries, the safety and efficacy of cooling in low-and middle-income countries is not known. OBJECTIVE: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of all published randomised or quasi-randomised controlled trials of cooling therapy for neonatal encephalopathy in low-and middle-income countries. RESULTS: Seven trials, comprising a total of 567 infants were included in the meta-analysis. Most study infants had mild (15%) or moderate encephalopathy (48%) and did not receive invasive ventilation (88%). Cooling devices included water-circulating cooling caps, frozen gel packs, ice, water bottles, and phase-changing material. No statistically significant reduction in neonatal mortality was seen with cooling (risk ratio: 0.74, 95% confidence intervals: 0.44 to 1.25). Data on other neonatal morbidities and long-term neurological outcomes were insufficient. CONCLUSION: Cooling therapy was not associated with a statistically significant reduction in neonatal mortality in low-and middle-income countries although the confidence intervals were wide and not incompatible with results seen in high-income countries. The apparent lack of treatment effect may be due to the heterogeneity and poor quality of the included studies, inefficiency of the low technology cooling devices, lack of optimal neonatal intensive care, sedation and ventilatory support, overuse of oxygen, or may be due to the intrinsic difference in the population, for example higher rates of perinatal infection, obstructed labor, intrauterine growth retardation and maternal malnutrition. Evaluation of the safety and efficacy of cooling in adequately powered randomised controlled trials is required before cooling is offered in routine clinical practice in low-and middle-income countries.			2013				2973
Effectiveness of home visiting programs on child outcomes: a systematic review		Peacock, S., Konrad, S., Watson, E., Nickel, D. and Muhajarine, N.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of paraprofessional home-visitations on improving the circumstances of disadvantaged families is unclear. The purpose of this paper is to systematically review the effectiveness of paraprofessional home-visiting programs on developmental and health outcomes of young children from disadvantaged families. METHODS: A comprehensive search of electronic databases (e.g., CINAHL PLUS, Cochrane, EMBASE, MEDLINE) from 1990 through May 2012 was supplemented by reference lists to search for relevant studies. Through the use of reliable tools, studies were assessed in duplicate. English language studies of paraprofessional home-visiting programs assessing specific outcomes for children (0-6 years) from disadvantaged families were eligible for inclusion in the review. Data extraction included the characteristics of the participants, intervention, outcomes and quality of the studies. RESULTS: Studies that scored 13 or greater out of a total of 15 on the validity tool (n = 21) are the focus of this review. All studies are randomized controlled trials and most were conducted in the United States. Significant improvements to the development and health of young children as a result of a home-visiting program are noted for particular groups. These include: (a) prevention of child abuse in some cases, particularly when the intervention is initiated prenatally; (b) developmental benefits in relation to cognition and problem behaviours, and less consistently with language skills; and (c) reduced incidence of low birth weights and health problems in older children, and increased incidence of appropriate weight gain in early childhood. However, overall home-visiting programs are limited in improving the lives of socially high-risk children who live in disadvantaged families. CONCLUSIONS: Home visitation by paraprofessionals is an intervention that holds promise for socially high-risk families with young children. Initiating the intervention prenatally and increasing the number of visits improves development and health outcomes for particular groups of children. Future studies should consider what dose of the intervention is most beneficial and address retention issues.			2013				3438
Place of preoperative treatment of acromegaly with somatostatin analog on surgical outcome: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Pita-Gutierrez, F., Pertega-Diaz, S., Pita-Fernandez, S., Pena, L., Lugo, G., Sangiao-Alvarellos, S. and Cordido, F.				plos one	plos one	CONTEXT: Transsphenoidal neurosurgery is the accepted first-line treatment of acromegaly in the majority of patients. Previous studies addressing preoperative somatostatin analog (SSA) treatment and subsequent surgical cure rates are conflicting, reporting either benefits or no significant differences. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study, based on a meta-analysis of all published reports, was to investigate whether treatment with SSA before surgery improves the surgical outcome of acromegaly. DATA SOURCES: All studies of preoperative treatment of acromegaly with SSA were systematically reviewed up to December 2011. We searched the Medline, Embase, Cochrane and Google Scholar electronic databases. STUDY SELECTION: The primary endpoint was the biochemical postoperative cure rate. We identified 286 studies, out of which 10 studies (3.49%) fulfilling the eligibility criteria were selected for analysis; five retrospective studies with a control group, two prospective non-randomized trials, and three prospective controlled trials. The meta-analysis was conducted using the random-effects model. DATA EXTRACTION: Data were extracted from published reports by two independent observers. DATA SYNTHESIS: A borderline effect was detected in the analysis of all of the trials with control groups, with a pooled odds ratio (OR) for biochemical cure with SSA treatment of 1.62 (95% CI, 0.93-2.82). In the analysis of the three prospective controlled trials, a statistically significant effect was identified OR: 3.62 (95% CI, 1.88-6.96). CONCLUSIONS: Preoperative treatment with SSA og GH-secreting pituitary adenomas shows a significant improvement on surgical results. This meta-analysis suggests that in centers without optimal results all patients with a GH-secreting pituitary macroadenoma should be treated with a long-acting SSA prior to surgical treatment.			2013				3559
Oral anticoagulation therapy in heart failure patients in sinus rhythm: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Rengo, G., Pagano, G., Squizzato, A., Moja, L., Femminella, G. D., de Lucia, C., Komici, K., Parisi, V., Savarese, G., Ferrara, N., Perrone-Filardi, P. and Leosco, D.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF) patients show high morbidity and mortality rate with increased risk of malignant arrhythmia and thromboembolism. Anticoagulation reduces embolic event and death rates in HF patients with atrial fibrillation, but if antithrombotic therapy is beneficial in patients with HF in sinus rhythm is still debated. METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We conducted a systematic review of prospective, randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to assess the efficacy and safety of oral anticoagulant therapies (OATs) compared to antiplatelet treatment in HF patients in sinus rhythm. MEDLINE, Web of Science, CENTRAL and Scopus databases were searched up to May 2012. Four RCTs were identified and a total of 3663 patients were included in the meta-analysis. Patients with both ischemic and non-ischemic HF were included. There was no significant difference in mortality (odds ratio (OR) 1.01, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.86 to 1.19) between OATs group and antiplatelet drug group. OATs have reduced ischemic stroke risk (OR 0.49, 95% CI 0.32 to 0.74), but have increased major bleeding risk (OR 2.01, 95% CI 1.40 to 2.88) compared to antiplatelet treatment. CONCLUSION: In HF patients in sinus rhythm OATs do not show a better risk-benefit profile compared to antiplatelet treatment in cardioembolism prevention. Warfarin and aspirin seem to be similar in reducing mortality. Warfarin reduces the incidence of ischemic stroke, but increases major bleedings. Thus, it is possible to speculate that aspirin prescription be indicated in patients with high risk of bleeding, whereas warfarin could be preferred in patients with high thromboembolic risk.			2013				2974
Adoptive cellular immunotherapy in metastatic renal cell carcinoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Tang, X., Liu, T., Zang, X., Liu, H., Wang, D., Chen, H. and Zhang, B.				plos one	plos one	PURPOSE: Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), as one of the most immunogenic tumors has been the focus of adoptive cellular immunotherapy (ACI), but the effects of ACI on objective response and survival in patients with mRCC are still controversial. Therefore, a systematic review and meta-analysis was performed to address this issue. METHODS: A search was conducted in the PubMed database for randomized clinical trials (RCTs) with ACI in mRCC. All included articles in this study were assessed according to the selection criteria and were divided into two groups: ACI versus no ACI. Outcomes were toxicity, objective response, 1-, 3- and 5-year survival. Risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using a fixed-effects meta-analysis. Heterogeneity was measured by value of I(2) or P. RESULTS: 4 studies (469 patients) were included. Most of ACI-related adverse reactions were grade 1 or 2 and reversible. ACI provided significant benefit in terms of objective response (RR?=?1.65; 95% CI, 1.15 to 2.38; P?=?0.007, I(2)?=?49%), 1-year survival (RR?=?1.30; 95% CI, 1.12 to 1.52; P?=?0.0008, I(2)?=?0%), 3-year survival (RR?=?2.76; 95% CI, 1.85 to 4.14; P<0.00001, I(2)?=?46%) and 5-year survival (RR?=?2.42; 95% CI, 1.21 to 4.83; P?=?0.01, I(2)?=?28%). CONCLUSIONS: ACI may be a safe and effective treatment for improving objective response, 1-, 3- and 5-year survival in patients with mRCC. Besides, five obstacles for ACI, including high degree of personalization, unsuitable WHO/RECIST response criteria, inadequate identification of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs), lack of effective combination treatments and less attention paid to the quality of ACI products, should be overcome during the successful development of more potent ACI for cancer in the future.			2013				2970
Comparing influenza vaccine efficacy against mismatched and matched strains: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Tricco, A. C., Chit, A., Soobiah, C., Hallett, D., Meier, G., Chen, M. H., Tashkandi, M., Bauch, C. T. and Loeb, M.				bmc medicine	bmc medicine	BACKGROUND: Influenza vaccines are most effective when the antigens in the vaccine match those of circulating strains. However, antigens contained in the vaccines do not always match circulating strains. In the present work we aimed to examine the vaccine efficacy (VE) afforded by influenza vaccines when they are not well matched to circulating strains. METHODS: We identified randomized clinical trials (RCTs) through MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, and references of included RCTs. RCTs reporting laboratory-confirmed influenza among healthy participants vaccinated with antigens of matching and non-matching influenza strains were included. Two independent reviewers screened citations/full-text articles, abstracted data, and appraised risk of bias. Conflicts were resolved by discussion. A random effects meta-analysis was conducted. VE was calculated using the following formula: (1 - relative risk × 100%). RESULTS: We included 34 RCTs, providing data on 47 influenza seasons and 94,821 participants. The live-attenuated influenza vaccine (LAIV) showed significant protection against mismatched (six RCTs, VE 54%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 28% to 71%) and matched (seven RCTs, VE 83%, 95% CI 75% to 88%) influenza strains among children aged 6 to 36 months. Differences were observed between the point estimates for mismatched influenza A (five RCTs, VE 75%, 95% CI 41% to 90%) and mismatched influenza B (five RCTs, VE 42%, 95% CI 22% to 56%) estimates among children aged 6 to 36 months. The trivalent inactivated vaccine (TIV) also afforded significant protection against mismatched (nine RCTs, VE 52%, 95% CI 37% to 63%) and matched (eight RCTs, VE 65%, 95% CI 54% to 73%) influenza strains among adults. Numerical differences were observed between the point estimates for mismatched influenza A (five RCTs, VE 64%, 95% CI 23% to 82%) and mismatched influenza B (eight RCTs, VE 52%, 95% CI 19% to 72%) estimates among adults. Statistical heterogeneity was low (I2 <50%) across all meta-analyses, except for the LAIV meta-analyses among children (I2 = 79%). CONCLUSIONS: The TIV and LAIV vaccines can provide cross protection against non-matching circulating strains. The point estimates for VE were different for matching versus non-matching strains, with overlapping CIs.			2013				3462
The effect of health facility delivery on neonatal mortality: systematic review and meta-analysis		Tura, G., Fantahun, M. and Worku, A.				bmc pregnancy and childbirth	bmc pregnancy and childbirth	BACKGROUND: Though promising progress has been made towards achieving the Millennium Development Goal four through substantial reduction in under-five mortality, the decline in neonatal mortality remains stagnant, mainly in the middle and low-income countries. As an option, health facility delivery is assumed to reduce this problem significantly. However, the existing evidences show contradicting conclusions about this fact, particularly in areas where enabling environments are constraint. Thus, this review was conducted with the aim of determining the pooled effect of health facility delivery on neonatal mortality. METHODS: The reviewed studies were accessed through electronic web-based search strategy from PUBMED, Cochrane Library and Advanced Google Scholar by using combination key terms. The analysis was done by using STATA-11. I2 test statistic was used to assess heterogeneity. Funnel plot, Begg's test and Egger's test were used to check for publication bias. Pooled effect size was determined in the form of relative risk in the random-effects model using DerSimonian and Laird's estimator. RESULTS: A total of 2,216 studies conducted on the review topic were identified. During screening, 37 studies found to be relevant for data abstraction. From these, only 19 studies fulfilled the preset criteria and included in the analysis. In 10 of the 19 studies included in the analysis, facility delivery had significant association with neonatal mortality; while in 9 studies the association was not significant. Based on the random effects model, the final pooled effect size in the form of relative risk was 0.71 (95% CI: 0.54, 0.87) for health facility delivery as compared to home delivery. CONCLUSION: Health facility delivery is found to reduce the risk of neonatal mortality by 29% in low and middle income countries. Expansion of health facilities, fulfilling the enabling environments and promoting their utilization during childbirth are essential in areas where home delivery is a common practice.			2013				3496
Fish oil administration in older adults: is there potential for adverse events? A systematic review of the literature		Villani, A. M., Crotty, M., Cleland, L. G., James, M. J., Fraser, R. J., Cobiac, L. and Miller, M. D.				bmc geriatrics	bmc geriatrics	BACKGROUND: Omega-3 (n-3) fatty acid supplementation is becoming increasingly popular. However given its antithrombotic properties the potential for severe adverse events (SAE) such as bleeding has safety implications, particularly in an older adult population. A systematic review of randomized control trials (RCT) was conducted to explore the potential for SAE and non-severe adverse events (non-SAE) associated with n-3 supplementation in older adults. METHODS: A comprehensive search strategy using Medline and a variety of other electronic sources was conducted. Studies investigating the oral administration of n-3 fish oil containing eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) or both against a placebo were sourced. The primary outcome of interest included reported SAE associated with n-3 supplementation. Chi-square analyses were conducted on the pooled aggregate of AEs. RESULTS: Of the 398 citations initially retrieved, a total of 10 studies involving 994 older adults aged ?60 years were included in the review. Daily fish oil doses ranged from 0.03 g to 1.86 g EPA and/or DHA with study durations ranging from 6 to 52 weeks. No SAE were reported and there were no significant differences in the total AE rate between groups (n-3 intervention group: 53/540; 9.8%; placebo group: 28/454; 6.2%; p?=?0.07). Non-SAE relating to gastrointestinal (GI) disturbances were the most commonly reported however there was no significant increase in the proportion of GI disturbances reported in participants randomized to the n-3 intervention (n-3 intervention group: 42/540 (7.8%); placebo group: 24/454 (5.3%); p?=?0.18). CONCLUSIONS: The potential for AEs appear mild-moderate at worst and are unlikely to be of clinical significance. The use of n-3 fatty acids and the potential for SAE should however be further researched to investigate whether this evidence is consistent at higher doses and in other populations. These results also highlight that well-documented data outlining the potential for SAE following n-3 supplementation are limited nor adequately reported to draw definitive conclusions concerning the safety associated with n-3 supplementation. A more rigorous and systematic approach for monitoring and recording AE data in clinical settings that involve n-3 supplementation is required.			2013				3088
Gemcitabine plus erlotinib for advanced pancreatic cancer: a systematic review with meta-analysis		Yang, Z. Y., Yuan, J. Q., Di, M. Y., Zheng, D. Y., Chen, J. Z., Ding, H., Wu, X. Y., Huang, Y. F., Mao, C. and Tang, J. L.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: This study aims to comprehensively summarize the currently available evidences on the efficacy and safety of gemcitabine plus erlotinib for treating advanced pancreatic cancer. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: PubMed, EMBASE, The Cochrane Library and abstracts of recent major conferences were systematically searched to identify relevant publications. Studies that were conducted in advanced pancreatic cancer patients treated with gemcitabine plus erlotinib (with or without comparison with gemcitabine alone) and reporting objective response rate, disease control rate, progression-free survival, time-to-progression, overall survival, 1-year survival rate and/or adverse events were included. Data on objective response rate, disease control rate, 1-year survival rate and adverse events rate, respectively, were combined mainly by using Meta-Analyst software with a random-effects model. Data on progression-free survival, time-to-progression and overall survival were summarized descriptively. Sixteen studies containing 1,308 advanced pancreatic cancer patients treated with gemcitabine plus erlotinib were included. The reported median progression-free survival (or time-to-progression), median overall survival, 1-year survival rates, objective response rates and disease control rates were 2-9.6 months, 5-12.5 months, 20%-51%, 0%-28.6% and 25.0%-83.3%, respectively. The weighted 1-year survival rate, objective response rate and disease control rate based on studies reporting robust results were 27.9%, 9.1% and 57.0%, respectively. According to the studies with relevant data, the incidences of total and severe adverse events were 96.3% and 62.9%, respectively. The most frequently reported adverse events were leucopenia, rash, diarrhea, vomitting, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, anaemia, stomatitis, drug-induced liver injury, fatigue and fever. Compared with gemcitabine alone, the progression-free survival and overall survival with gemcitabine plus erlotinib were significantly longer, but there were also more deaths and interstitial lung disease-like syndrome related to this treatment. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Gemcitabine plus erlotinib represent a new option for the treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer, with mild but clinically meaningful additive efficacy compared with gemcitabine alone. Its safety profile is generally acceptable, although careful management is needed for some specific adverse events.			2013				3349
Efficacy of intensive control of glucose in stroke prevention: a meta-analysis of data from 59,197 participants in 9 randomized controlled trials		Zhang, C., Zhou, Y. H., Xu, C. L., Chi, F. L. and Ju, H. N.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The efficacy of treatments that lower glucose in reducing the risk of incident stroke remains unclear. We therefore did a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy of intensive control of glucose in the prevention of stroke. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We systematically searched Medline, EmBase, and the Cochrane Library for trials published between 1950 and June, 2012. We included randomized controlled trials that reported on the effects of intensive control of glucose on incident stroke compared with standard care. Summary estimates of relative risk (RR) reductions were calculated with a random effects model, and the analysis was further stratified by factors that could affect the treatment effects. Of 649 identified studies, we included nine relevant trials, which provided data for 59,197 patients and 2037 events of stroke. Overall, intensive control of glucose as compared to standard care had no effect on incident stroke (RR, 0.96; 95%CI 0.88-1.06; P?=?0.445). In the stratified analyses, a beneficial effect was seen in those trials when body mass index (BMI) more than 30 (RR, 0.86; 95%CI: 0.75-0.99; P?=?0.041). No other significant differences were detected between the effect of intensive control of glucose and standard care when based on other subset factors. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our study indicated intensive control of glucose can effectively reduce the risk of incident stroke when patients with BMI more than 30.			2013				3850
Efficacy and safety of tofacitinib in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis		He, Y., Wong, A. Y., Chan, E. W., Lau, W. C., Man, K. K., Chui, C. S., Worsley, A. J. and Wong, I. C.				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	BACKGROUND: Tofacitinib is a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) which was recently approved by US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). There are several randomised clinical trials (RCTs) that have investigated the efficacy and safety of tofacitinib in adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). A systematic review with a meta-analysis of RCTs was undertaken to determine the efficacy and safety of tofacitinib in treating patients with RA. METHODS: Electronic and clinical trials register databases were searched for published RCTs of tofacitinib between 2009 and 2013. Outcomes of interest include 20% and 50% improvement in the American College of Rheumatology Scale (ACR20 and ACR50) response rates, rates of infection, the number of immunological/haematological adverse events (AEs), deranged laboratory results (hepatic, renal, haematological tests and lipoprotein level) and the incidence of drug withdrawal. RESULTS: Eight RCTs (n = 3,791) were reviewed. Significantly greater ACR20 response rates were observed in patients receiving tofacitinib 5 and 10 mg bid (twice daily) versus placebo at week 12, with risk ratios (RR) of 2.20 (95% CI 1.58, 3.07) and 2.38 (95% CI 1.81, 3.14) respectively. The effect was maintained at week 24 for 5 mg bid (RR 1.94; 95% CI 1.55, 2.44) and 10 mg bid (RR 2.20; 95% CI 1.76, 2.75). The ACR50 response rate was also significantly higher for patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg bid (RR 2.91; 95% CI 2.03, 4.16) and 10 mg bid (RR 3.32; 95% CI 2.33, 4.72) compared to placebo at week 12. Patients in the tofacitinib group had significantly lower mean neutrophil counts, higher serum creatinine, higher percentage change of LDL/HDL and a higher risk of ALT/AST > 1 ULN (upper limit of normal) versus placebo. There were no significant differences in AEs and withdrawal due to AEs compared to placebo. CONCLUSION: Tofacitinib is efficacious and well tolerated in patients with MTX-resistant RA up to a period of 24 weeks. However, haematological, liver function tests and lipoproteins should be monitored. Long-term efficacy and pharmacovigilance studies are recommended.			2013				3048
Influence of mHealth interventions on gender relations in developing countries: a systematic literature review		Jennings, L. and Gagliardi, L.				international journal for equity in health	international journal for equity in health	INTRODUCTION: Research has shown that mHealth initiatives, or health programs enhanced by mobile phone technologies, can foster women's empowerment. Yet, there is growing concern that mobile-based programs geared towards women may exacerbate gender inequalities. METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted to examine the empirical evidence of changes in men and women's interactions as a result of mHealth interventions. To be eligible, studies had to have been published in English from 2002 to 2012, conducted in a developing country, included an evaluation of a mobile health intervention, and presented findings on resultant dynamics between women and men. The search strategy comprised four electronic bibliographic databases in addition to a manual review of the reference lists of relevant articles and a review of organizational websites and journals with recent mHealth publications. The methodological rigor of selected studies was appraised by two independent reviewers who also abstracted data on the study's characteristics. Iterative thematic analyses were used to synthesize findings relating to gender-transformative and non-transformative experiences. RESULTS: Out of the 173 articles retrieved for review, seven articles met the inclusion criteria and were retained in the final analysis. Most mHealth interventions were SMS-based and conducted in sub-Saharan Africa on topics relating to HIV/AIDS, sexual and reproductive health, health-based microenterprise, and non-communicable diseases. Several methodological limitations were identified among eligible quantitative and qualitative studies. The current literature suggests that mobile phone programs can influence gender relations in meaningfully positive ways by providing new modes for couple's health communication and cooperation and by enabling greater male participation in health areas typically targeted towards women. MHealth initiatives also increased women's decision-making, social status, and access to health resources. However, programmatic experiences by design may inadvertently reinforce the digital divide, and perpetuate existing gender-based power imbalances. Domestic disputes and lack of spousal approval additionally hampered women's participation. CONCLUSION: Efforts to scale-up health interventions enhanced by mobile technologies should consider the implementation and evaluation imperative of ensuring that mHealth programs transform rather than reinforce gender inequalities. The evidence base on the effect of mHealth interventions on gender relations is weak, and rigorous research is urgently needed.			2013				2869
Dietary management of childhood diarrhea in low- and middle-income countries: a systematic review		Gaffey, M. F., Wazny, K., Bassani, D. G. and Bhutta, Z. A.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Current WHO guidelines on the management and treatment of diarrhea in children strongly recommend continued feeding alongside the administration of oral rehydration solution and zinc therapy, but there remains some debate regarding the optimal diet or dietary ingredients for feeding children with diarrhea. METHODS: We conducted a systematic search for all published randomized controlled trials evaluating food-based interventions among children under five years old with diarrhea in low- and middle-income countries. We classified 29 eligible studies into one or more comparisons: reduced versus regular lactose liquid feeds, lactose-free versus lactose-containing liquid feeds, lactose-free liquid feeds versus lactose-containing mixed diets, and commercial/specialized ingredients versus home-available ingredients. We used all available outcome data to conduct random-effects meta-analyses to estimate the average effect of each intervention on diarrhea duration, stool output, weight gain and treatment failure risk for studies on acute and persistent diarrhea separately. RESULTS: Evidence of low-to-moderate quality suggests that among children with acute diarrhea, diluting or fermenting lactose-containing liquid feeds does not affect any outcome when compared with an ordinary lactose-containing liquid feeds. In contrast, moderate quality evidence suggests that lactose-free liquid feeds reduce duration and the risk of treatment failure compared to lactose-containing liquid feeds in acute diarrhea. Only limited evidence of low quality was available to assess either of these two approaches in persistent diarrhea, or to assess lactose-free liquid feeds compared to lactose-containing mixed diets in either acute or persistent diarrhea. For commercially prepared or specialized ingredients compared to home-available ingredients, we found low-to-moderate quality evidence of no effect on any outcome in either acute or persistent diarrhea, though when we restricted these analyses to studies where both intervention and control diets were lactose-free, weight gain in children with acute diarrhea was shown to be greater among those fed with a home-available diet. CONCLUSIONS: Among children in low- and middle-income countries, where the dual burden of diarrhea and malnutrition is greatest and where access to proprietary formulas and specialized ingredients is limited, the use of locally available age-appropriate foods should be promoted for the majority of acute diarrhea cases. Lactose intolerance is an important complication in some cases, but even among those children for whom lactose avoidance may be necessary, nutritionally complete diets comprised of locally available ingredients can be used at least as effectively as commercial preparations or specialized ingredients. These same conclusions may also apply to the dietary management of children with persistent diarrhea, but the evidence remains limited.			2013				3439
Nevirapine-based regimens in HIV-infected antiretroviral-naive patients: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Kawalec, P., Kryst, J., Mikrut, A. and Pilc, A.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Nevirapine belongs to the group of non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs) and is commonly administered in first-line treatment of HIV infection. OBJECTIVE: Systematic review and meta-analysis was undertaken to compare effectiveness of nevirapine-based regimens with other antiretroviral schedules used as an initial treatment of HIV-infected antiretroviral-naive subjects. METHODS: Electronic databases (PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, Trip Database) were searched up to 28 December 2012 for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published as a full text and regarding nevirapine-based regimens used as a initial treatment for HIV infection. Meta-analysis was performed with RevMan(®) V 5.2 software. RESULTS: Twelve RCTs were included in the systematic review and all of them were suitable for meta-analysis. Results of the meta-analysis have shown that nevirapine, efavirenz, and ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor, added to the background regimens, were equally effective in terms of reaching undetectable plasma HIV RNA level as well as risk of disease progression or death. Compared with ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor-based regimens, nevirapine-based regimens statistically significantly increased the risk of discontinuation of assigned treatment (RR=3.10; 95% CI: 1.14-8.41; p<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Despite limited RCTs data available for particular comparisons, our results suggest that nevirapine-based regimens may be considered for first-line treatment of HIV-infected adults, due to their comparable efficacy to the other currently recommended initial antiretroviral therapies.			2013				2747
A systematic review of interventions to reduce HIV-related stigma and discrimination from 2002 to 2013: how far have we come?		Stangl, A. L., Lloyd, J. K., Brady, L. M., Holland, C. E. and Baral, S.				journal of the international aids society	journal of the international aids society	INTRODUCTION: HIV-related stigma and discrimination continue to hamper efforts to prevent new infections and engage people in HIV treatment, care and support programmes. The identification of effective interventions to reduce stigma and discrimination that can be integrated into national responses is crucial to the success of the global AIDS response. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of studies and reports that assessed the effectiveness of interventions to reduce HIV stigma and discrimination between 1 January 2002 and 1 March 2013. Databases searched for peer-reviewed articles included PubMed, Scopus, EBSCO Host -CINAHL Plus, Psycinfo, Ovid, Sociofile and Popline. Reports were obtained from the www.HIVAIDSClearinghouse.eu, USAID Development Experience Clearinghouse, UNESCO HIV and AIDS Education Clearinghouse, Google, WHO and UNAIDS. Ancestry searches for articles included in the systematic review were also conducted. Studies of any design that sought to reduce stigma as a primary or secondary objective and included pre- and post-intervention measures of stigma were included. RESULTS: Of 2368 peer-reviewed articles and reports identified, 48 were included in our review representing 14 different target populations in 28 countries. The majority of interventions utilized two or more strategies to reduce stigma and discrimination, and ten included structural or biomedical components. However, most interventions targeted a single socio-ecological level and a single domain of stigma. Outcome measures lacked uniformity and validity, making both interpretation and comparison of study results difficult. While the majority of studies were effective at reducing the aspects of stigma they measured, none assessed the influence of stigma or discrimination reduction on HIV-related health outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Our review revealed considerable progress in the stigma-reduction field. However, critical challenges and gaps remain which are impeding the identification of effective stigma-reduction strategies that can be implemented by national governments on a larger scale. The development, validation, and consistent use of globally relevant scales of stigma and discrimination are a critical next step for advancing the field of research in this area. Studies comparing the effectiveness of different stigma-reduction strategies and studies assessing the influence of stigma reduction on key behavioural and biomedical outcomes are also needed to maximize biomedical prevention efforts.			2013				3058
Metformin therapy and risk of cancer in patients with type 2 diabetes: systematic review		Franciosi, M., Lucisano, G., Lapice, E., Strippoli, G. F., Pellegrini, F. and Nicolucci, A.				plos one	plos one	AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Diabetes treatments were related with either an increased or reduced risk of cancer. There is ongoing debate about a potential protective action of metformin. To summarize evidence on the association between metformin and risk of cancer and cancer mortality in patients with diabetes. METHODS: None DATA SOURCE: MEDLINE and EMBASE (January 1966-April 2012). We selected randomized studies comparing metformin and other hypoglycaemic agents and observational studies exploring the association between exposure to metformin and cancer. Outcomes were cancer mortality, all malignancies and site-specific cancers. RESULTS: Of 25307 citations identified, 12 randomized controlled trials (21,595 patients) and 41 observational studies (1,029,389 patients) met the inclusion criteria. In observational studies there was a significant association of exposure to metformin with the risk of cancer death [6 studies, 24,410 patients, OR:0.65, 95%CI: 0.53-0.80], all malignancies [18 studies, 561,836 patients, OR:0.73, 95%CI: 0.61-0.88], liver [8 studies, 312,742 patients, OR:0.34; 95%CI: 0.19-0.60] colorectal [12 studies, 871,365 patients, OR:0.83, 95%CI: 0.74-0.92], pancreas [9 studies, 847,248 patients, OR:0.56, 95%CI: 0.36-0.86], stomach [2 studies, 100701 patients, OR:0.83, 95%CI: 0.76-0.91], and esophagus cancer [2 studies, 100694 patients, OR:0.90, 95%CI: 0.83-0.98]. No significant difference of risk was observed in randomized trials. Metformin was not associated with the risk of: breast cancer, lung cancer, ovarian cancer, uterus cancer, prostate cancer, bladder cancer, kidney cancer, and melanoma. CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Results suggest that Metformin might be associated with a significant reduction in the risk of cancer and cancer-related mortality. Randomized trials specifically designed to evaluate the efficacy of metformin as an anticancer agent are warranted.			2013				3367
?-Blockers for the prevention of sudden cardiac death in heart failure patients: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Al-Gobari, M., El Khatib, C., Pillon, F. and Gueyffier, F.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: In many studies, beta-blockers have been shown to decrease sudden cardiac death (SCD) in heart failure patients; other studies reported mixed results. Recently, several large randomized control trials of beta blockers have been carried out. It became necessary to conduct a systematic review to provide an up-to-date synthesis of available data. METHODS: We conducted a meta-analysis of all randomized controlled trials examining the use of beta-blockers vs. placebo/control for the prevention of SCD in heart failure patients. We identified 30 trials, which randomized 24,779 patients to beta-blocker or placebo/control. Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines were followed. Eligible studies had to be randomized controlled trials and provide information on the incidence of sudden cardiac death in heart failure patients. Additional inclusion criteria included: treatment for >30 days and follow-up?3 months. Studies of patients<18 years, randomization to beta-blocker vs. an angiotensin converting enzyme (without placebo) and/or beta-blocker in both arms were excluded from the analysis. Pre-specified outcomes of interest included SCD, cardiovascular death (CVD), and all-cause mortality and were analyzed according to intention-to-treat. RESULTS: We found that beta-blockers are effective in the prevention of SCD [OR 0.69; 95% CI, 0.62-0.77, P<0.00001], cardiovascular death (CVD) [OR 0.71; 95% CI, 0.64-0.79, P<0.00001], and all-cause mortality [OR 0.67; 95% CI, 0.59-0.76, P<0.00001]. Based on the study analysis, 43 patients must be treated with a beta-blocker to prevent one SCD, 26 patients to prevent one CVD and 21 patients to prevent all-cause mortality in one year. CONCLUSION: Beta-blockers reduce the risk of sudden cardiac death (SCD) by 31%, cardiovascular death (CVD) by 29% and all-cause mortality by 33%. These results confirm the mortality benefits of these drugs and they should be recommended to all patients similar to those included in the trials.			2013				3803
Financial Incentives and Coverage of Child Health Interventions: a Systematic Review and Meta-analysis		Bassani, D. G., Arora, P., Wazny, K., Gaffey, M. F., Lenters, L. and Bhutta, Z. A.				bmc public health	bmc public health	MAIN FINDINGS: Headline Findings: a summary statement Financial incentives can lead to increased uptake and coverage of a number of health interventions and practices for children under the age of five, but the evidence base is limited and generally of low quality. Evidence Base The authors include 25 studies in this review, of which 13 took place in Latin America and the Caribbean, eight in Sub-Saharan Africa and four in South Asia. Of the studies, 48 percent assess cash-transfer programmes (41 percent conditional cash-transfer programmes and 7 percent unconditional cash-transfer programmes), 22 percent assess the effects of removing user fees and 25 percent assess microcredit programmes. In terms of child health coverage indicators, 12 studies look at vaccination coverage, 19 studies look at health-care use, four studies look at the management of diarrhoeal diseases, four studies look at other preventive health and three studies look at breastfeeding practices. Implications for policy and practice Breastfeeding practices: Financial incentives can have a positive impact on some breastfeeding practices. Evidence from two studies in Bolivia and Ghana shows that microcredit programmes conditional on participation of mothers in health and nutrition education lead to a 22 percent increase in new-born babies receiving colostrum, on average (mean risk difference [MD] = 0.22; 95 percent confidence interval [CI]: 0.08, 0.35). However, two studies of conditional and unconditional microcredit interventions in Honduras and Ecuador found no significant effects on prevalence of breastfeeding. The overall size and quality of the evidence base is low.Vaccination coverage: Evidence from conditional cash-transfer and conditional microcredit programmes shows no impact on vaccination coverage, specifically BCG, DPT-1, DPT-3, measles or polio. Evidence from four conditional cash-transfer programmes suggests that these programmes may increase coverage of full age-appropriate vaccination, but the average effect is not statistically significant (MD = 0.05; CI: ?0.01, 0.10). The available evidence base is only of moderate to low quality. Use of preventative health care: Evidence from five conditional cash-transfer programmes shows a 14 percent increase, on average, in the use of preventive health care by children under the age of five (MD = 0.14; CI: ?0.00, 0.29), though the average effect is not statistically significant. The authors also note that the effects vary across studies and the evidence is of variable quality. Removal of user fees lead to a 33 percent increase in the prevalence of health-care use, on average (MD = 0.33; CI: 0.24, 0.43), and a 99 percent increase in the frequency of health-care use, on average (MD = 0.99; CI: 0.71, 1.27)but, again, the quality of evidence is low.Management of child diarrhoea: The evidence for the impact of financial-incentive programmes on management of childhood diarrhoea is poor, with only single studies looking at the impact of either unconditional or conditional microcredit on use of oral rehydration or care-seeking during diarrhoea. Two studies of conditional microcredit interventions suggest no effect of the intervention on the practice of continuing child feeding during diarrhoea. Other preventative health care: Evidence from two conditional cash-transfer programmes finds a 16 percent increase in the average coverage of Vitamin A supplements, but the results are not statistically significant (MD = 0.16; CI: ?0.01, 0.34). Implications for further research The review team calls for future systematic reviews to assess the impact of financial incentives on child morbidity and mortality. They also state that future primary research should try to isolate the effects of the financial and non-financial components of programmes. BACKGROUND: Financial incentives that provide direct or indirect monetary incentives to households, such as voucher schemes or cash-transfer programmes, are commonly used to help overcome poverty and improve health of populations in low- and middle-income count ies. One channel by which they are expected to do this is through the removal of financial barriers to health care. This is expected to improve access, uptake and coverage of health services such as immunisation, treatment of diarrhoea and preventative health interventions. Previous reviews have looked at the impact of different types of financial incentives on health outcomes. However, this is the first review to comprehensively review the effectiveness of financial-incentive programmes in low- and middle-income countries targeted at the coverage and uptake of health services and behaviours of children under the age of five. RESEARCH OBJECTIVES: The authors aimed to investigate the effects of six different types of financial-incentive programmesunconditional cash transfers, conditional cash transfers, unconditional microcredit, conditional microcredit, unconditional voucher, conditional voucher and user-fee removalon uptake and coverage of health interventions for children under the age of five. METHODOLOGY: The authors included randomised controlled trials, cluster-randomised controlled trials and observational studies that assessed the effect of financial incentives on indicators of health-care coverage for children under the age of five. Eligible studies reported the effect of financial incentives on the following types of health-coverage outcomes: breastfeeding, vaccination, health-care use, diarrhoeal diseases and other preventive health interventions. The authors used the Child Health Evaluation Reference Group (CHERG) systematic review guidelines and searched for studies published in either peer-reviewed journals or institutional/commissioned reports covering the period up to 1 September 2012. They searched in the databases PubMed, EMBASE and AMED and used Google Scholar and the Microfinance Gateway library to complement this search. They assessed the quality of the included studies and used meta-analysis to synthesise effect sizes.			2013				2962
The effect of Haemophilus influenzae type B and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines on childhood meningitis mortality: a systematic review		Davis, S., Feikin, D. and Johnson, H. L.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Two of the most prevalent causes of severe bacterial meningitis in children, Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) and Streptococcus pneumoniae, are preventable by existing vaccines increasingly available in developing countries. Our objective was to estimate the dose-specific effect of Hib and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines (PCV) on childhood meningitis mortality in low-income countries for use in the Lives Saved Tool (LiST). METHODS: We systematically searched and reviewed published vaccine efficacy trials and observational studies reporting the effect of Hib or PCV vaccines on organism-specific meningitis, bacterial meningitis and all-cause meningitis incidence and mortality among children less than five years old in low- and middle-income countries. Data collection and quality assessments were performed using standardized guidelines. For outcomes available across multiple studies (? 2) and approximating meningitis mortality, we pooled estimates reporting dose-specific effects using random effects meta-analytic methods, then combined these with meningitis etiology data to determine the preventable fraction of childhood meningitis mortality for inclusion in LiST. RESULTS: We identified 18 studies of Hib conjugate vaccines reporting relevant meningitis morbidity and mortality outcomes (2 randomized controlled trials [RCTs], 16 observational studies) but few provided dose-specific effects. A meta-analysis of four case-control studies examined the dose-specific effect of Hib conjugate vaccines on Hib meningitis morbidity (1 dose: RR=0.64, 95% CI 0.38-1.06; 2 doses: RR=0.09, 95% CI 0.03-0.27; 3 doses: RR=0.06, 95% CI 0.02-0.22), consistent with results from single RCTs. Pooled estimates of two RCTs provided evidence for the effect of three doses of PCV on vaccine-serotype meningitis morbidity (RR=0.16, 95% CI 0.02-1.20). We considered these outcomes of severe disease as proxy estimates for meningitis mortality and combined the estimates of protective effects with meningitis etiology data to provide an estimate of the preventable fraction of childhood meningitis mortality with three doses of Hib (38-43%) and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines (28-35%) for use in LiST. CONCLUSIONS: Few RCTs or vaccine effectiveness studies evaluated the dose-specific impact of Hib and PCV vaccines on childhood meningitis mortality, necessitating use of proxy measures to estimate population impact in LiST. Our analysis indicates that approximately three-quarters of meningitis deaths are preventable with existing Hib and PCV vaccines.			2013				3574
Selective laser trabeculoplasty versus argon laser trabeculoplasty in patients with open-angle glaucoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Wang, W., He, M., Zhou, M. and Zhang, X.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: To examine possible differences in clinical outcomes between selective laser trabeculoplasty (SLT) and argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) in open-angle glaucoma at different times post-treatment. METHODS: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing SLT versus ALT were searched through August 2013. The main outcome measure was IOP, and secondary outcomes included the number of glaucoma medications, the success rate, and adverse events. RESULTS: Six RCTs, involving 482 eyes treated with laser trabeculoplasty, were included in the meta-analysis. For all patients (including first and previous laser trabeculoplasy), no significant difference in IOP lowering was observed between SLT and ALT at one hour (P = 0.40), one week (P = 0.72), one month (P = 0.37), six months (P = 0.08), one year (P = 0.34), two years (P = 0.58), three years (P = 0.34), four years (P = 0.47), and five years (P = 0.50). A statistically significant difference in favor of SLT was found when comparing the IOP reduction at three months after intervention (weighted mean difference (WMD): 1.19 mmHg [0.41; 1.97]; I(2)=0%; P = 0.003). For patients who were naive to laser, there was no significant difference of reduction in IOP comparing SLT with ALT at any time point. In patients' previous LT, no statistically significant difference in IOP reduction was found at six months (WMD 1.92 mmHg [-0.91; 4.74]; I(2) = 77.3%; P = 0.18). There was no significant difference in the reduction in the number of glaucoma medications, the success rate, or adverse event rates between the two treatments. CONCLUSIONS: SLT has equivalent ef?cacy to ALT with a similar constellation of side effects. In the case of retreatment, SLT appears to be similar to ALT in IOP lowering at six months.			2013				3540
Breastfeeding promotion interventions and breastfeeding practices: a systematic review		Haroon, S., Das, J. K., Salam, R. A., Imdad, A. and Bhutta, Z. A.				bmc public health	bmc public health	INTRODUCTION: Exclusive Breastfeeding (EBF) rates remain low in both low-income and high-income countries despite World Health Organization recommendations for EBF till 6 months. Breastfeeding has been shown to have a protective effect against gastrointestinal infections, among other benefits. Large-scale interventions focusing on educating mothers about breastfeeding have the potential to increase breastfeeding prevalence, especially EBF, up to recommended standards and also to decrease infant morbidity. METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted for RCTs and quasi-experimental studies comparing breastfeeding education or support to routine care. The effect of interventions was observed for exclusive, predominant, partial and no breastfeeding rates. The time intervals of interest were day 1, <1 month, and 1 to 5 months. Outcome-specific evidence was graded according to the Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group (CHERG) rules using the adapted Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) criteria and recommendations were made from studies in developing countries for inclusion into the Lives Saved Tool (LiST) model. RESULTS: After reviewing 4600 abstracts, 372 studies were selected for full text screening and 110 of these studies were finally included. Statistically significant increases in EBF rates as a result of breastfeeding promotion interventions were observed: 43% at day 1, 30% at <1 month, and 90% at 1-5 months. Rates of 'no breastfeeding' reduced by 32% at 1 day, 30% at <1 month, and 18% at 1-5 months. The effect of interventions on the rates of predominant and partial breastfeeding were non-significant. CONCLUSION: Breastfeeding education and/or support increased EBF rates and decreased no breastfeeding rates at birth, <1 month and 1-5 months. Combined individual and group counseling appeared to be superior to individual or group counseling alone. Interventions in developing countries had a greater impact than those in developed countries.			2013				3311
The evidence for the effectiveness of safety alerts in electronic patient medication record systems at the point of pharmacy order entry: a systematic review		Ojeleye, O., Avery, A., Gupta, V. and Boyd, M.				bmc medical informatics and decision making	bmc medical informatics and decision making	BACKGROUND: Electronic Patient Medication Record (ePMR) systems have important safety features embedded to alert users about potential clinical hazards and errors. To date, there is no synthesis of evidence about the effectiveness of these safety features and alerts at the point of pharmacy order entry. This review aims to systematically explore the literature and synthesise published evidence about the effectiveness of safety features and alerts in ePMR systems at the point of pharmacy order entry, in primary and secondary care. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, Inspec, International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, PsycINFO, CINHAL (earliest entry to March 2012) and reference lists of articles. Two reviewers examined the titles and abstracts, and used a hierarchical template to identify comparative design studies evaluating the effectiveness of safety features and alerts at the point of pharmacy order entry. The two reviewers independently assessed the quality of the included studies using Cochrane Collaboration's risk of bias tool. RESULTS: Three randomised trials and two before-after studies met our criteria. Four studies involved integrated care facilities and one was hospital-based. The studies were all from the United States (US). The five studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction in medication errors in patients with renal insufficiency, pregnant women dispensed US Food Drug and Administration (FDA) risk category D (evidence of fetal risk but therapeutic benefits can outweigh the risk) or X (evidence suggests that risk to the fetus outweighs therapeutic benefits) medication, first dispensing of inappropriate medications in patients aged 65 and above, co-dispensing of interacting drugs, and adverse drug events related to hyperkalaemia. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review shows that the safety features of ePMR systems are effective in alerting users about potential clinical hazards and errors during pharmacy order entry. There are however, problems such as false alerts and inconsistencies in alert management. More studies are needed from other countries and pharmacy practice settings to assess the effectiveness of electronic safety features and alerts in preventing error and reducing harm to patients.			2013				3206
Effectiveness of cultural adaptations of interventions aimed at smoking cessation, diet, and/or physical activity in ethnic minorities. a systematic review		Nierkens, V., Hartman, M. A., Nicolaou, M., Vissenberg, C., Beune, E. J., Hosper, K., van Valkengoed, I. G. and Stronks, K.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The importance of cultural adaptations in behavioral interventions targeting ethnic minorities in high-income societies is widely recognized. Little is known, however, about the effectiveness of specific cultural adaptations in such interventions. AIM: To systematically review the effectiveness of specific cultural adaptations in interventions that target smoking cessation, diet, and/or physical activity and to explore features of such adaptations that may account for their effectiveness. METHODS: Systematic review using MEDLINE, PsycINFO, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials registers (1997-2009). INCLUSION CRITERIA: a) effectiveness study of a lifestyle intervention targeted to ethnic minority populations living in a high income society; b) interventions included cultural adaptations and a control group that was exposed to the intervention without the cultural adaptation under study; c) primary outcome measures included smoking cessation, diet, or physical activity. RESULTS: Out of 44904 hits, we identified 17 studies, all conducted in the United States. In five studies, specific cultural adaptations had a statistically significant effect on primary outcomes. The remaining studies showed no significant effects on primary outcomes, but some presented trends favorable for cultural adaptations. We observed that interventions incorporating a package of cultural adaptations, cultural adaptations that implied higher intensity and those incorporating family values were more likely to report statistically significant effects. Adaptations in smoking cessation interventions seem to be more effective than adaptations in interventions aimed at diet and physical activity. CONCLUSION: This review indicates that culturally targeted behavioral interventions may be more effective if cultural adaptations are implemented as a package of adaptations, the adaptation includes family level, and where the adaptation results in a higher intensity of the intervention. More systematic experiments are needed in which the aim is to gain insight in the best mix of cultural adaptations among diverse populations in various settings, particularly outside the US.			2013				3170
A systematic review of HIV interventions for black men who have sex with men (MSM)		Maulsby, C., Millett, G., Lindsey, K., Kelley, R., Johnson, K., Montoya, D. and Holtgrave, D.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Black men who have sex with men (MSM) are disproportionately burdened by HIV/AIDS. Despite this burden there has been a shortage of research on HIV interventions for black MSM. This article provides a comprehensive review of the literature on interventions for black MSM to identify effective HIV prevention intervention strategies for black MSM. METHODS: We searched 3 databases: Pubmed, Scopus, and Google Scholar to identify peer-reviewed articles and used the following search terms: African American or black; MSM or men who have sex with men and women (MSMW); HIV; program or intervention; and evaluation or intervention science or implementation research. We included research articles that assessed interventions for black men who have sex with men. We included studies that used an experimental, quasi-experimental, or pre-post test design as well as formative research studies. We also searched the CDC and NIH websites to identify planned and on-going intervention studies. We identified a total of 23 studies to include in the review. RESULTS: We identified 12 completed studies of interventions for black MSM. Eight of these 12 interventions aimed to reduce HIV risk behaviors and 5 found a significant reduction in HIV risk behavior over time. We identified 4 health service intervention studies for young black MSM. CONCLUSIONS: Behavior change interventions are effective at reducing HIV risk behaviors among black MSM. However, relying only on behavioral interventions that aim to reduce HIV risk behavior will most likely not have a population-level effect on HIV infection among black MSM. There is a compelling and urgent need to develop and test comprehensive HIV testing, linkage to care, retention in care and adherence interventions for black MSM.			2013				3436
Telemedicine application in the care of diabetes patients: systematic review and meta-analysis		Marcolino, M. S., Maia, J. X., Alkmim, M. B., Boersma, E. and Ribeiro, A. L.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The impact of telemedicine application on the management of diabetes patients is unclear, as the results are not consistent among different studies. The objective of this study is to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) assessing the impact of telemedicine interventions on change in hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), blood pressure, LDL cholesterol (LDL-c) and body mass index (BMI) in diabetes patients. METHODS: Electronic databases MEDLINE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and LILACS were searched to identify relevant studies published until April 2012, supplemented by references from the selected articles. Study search and selection were performed by independent reviewers. Of the 6.258 articles retrieved, 13 RCTs (4207 patients) were included. Random effects model was applied to estimate the pooled results. RESULTS: Telemedicine was associated with a statistically significant and clinically relevant absolute decline in HbA1c level compared to control (mean difference -0.44% [-4.8 mmol/mol] and 95% confidence interval [CI] -0.61 to -0.26% [-6.7 to -2.8 mmol/mol]; p<0.001). LDL-c was reduced in 6.6 mg/dL (95% CI -8.3 to -4.9; p<0.001), but the clinical relevance of this effect can be questioned. No effects of telemedicine strategies were seen on systolic (-1.6 mmHg and 95% CI -7.2 to 4.1) and diastolic blood pressure (-1.1 mmHg and 95% CI -3.0 to 0.8). The 2 studies that assessed the effect on BMI demonstrated a tendency of BMI reduction in favor of telemedicine. CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine strategies combined to the usual care were associated with improved glycemic control in diabetic patients. No clinical relevant impact was observed on LDL-c and blood pressure, and there was a tendency of BMI reduction in diabetes patients who used telemedicine, but these outcomes should be further explored in future trials.			2013				2967
Do personal stories make patient decision aids more effective? A critical review of theory and evidence		Bekker, H. L., Winterbottom, A. E., Butow, P., Dillard, A. J., Feldman-Stewart, D., Fowler, F. J., Jibaja-Weiss, M. L., Shaffer, V. A. and Volk, R. J.				bmc medical informatics and decision making	bmc medical informatics and decision making	"BACKGROUND: Patient decision aids support people to make informed decisions between healthcare options. Personal stories provide illustrative examples of others' experiences and are seen as a useful way to communicate information about health and illness. Evidence indicates that providing information within personal stories affects the judgments and values people have, and the choices they make, differentially from facts presented in non-narrative prose. It is unclear if including narrative communications within patient decision aids enhances their effectiveness to support people to make informed decisions. METHODS: A survey of primary empirical research employing a systematic review method investigated the effect of patient decision aids with or without a personal story on people's healthcare judgements and decisions. Searches were carried out between 2005-2012 of electronic databases (Medline, PsycINFO), and reference lists of identified articles, review articles, and key authors. A narrative analysis described and synthesised findings. RESULTS: Of 734 citations identified, 11 were included describing 13 studies. All studies found participants' judgments and/or decisions differed depending on whether or not their decision aid included a patient story. Knowledge was equally facilitated when the decision aids with and without stories had similar information content. Story-enhanced aids may help people recall information over time and/or their motivation to engage with health information. Personal stories affected both ""system 1"" (e.g., less counterfactual reasoning, more emotional reactions and perceptions) and ""system 2"" (e.g., more perceived deliberative decision making, more stable evaluations over time) decision-making strategies. Findings exploring associations with narrative communications, decision quality measures, and different levels of literacy and numeracy were mixed. The pattern of findings was similar for both experimental and real-world studies. CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence that adding personal stories to decision aids increases their effectiveness to support people's informed decision making. More rigorous research is required to elicit evidence about the type of personal story that a) encourages people to make more reasoned decisions, b) discourages people from making choices based on another's values, and c) motivates people equally to engage with healthcare resources."			2013				3979
Systematic review of clinical decision support interventions with potential for inpatient cost reduction		Fillmore, C. L., Bray, B. E. and Kawamoto, K.				bmc medical informatics and decision making	bmc medical informatics and decision making	BACKGROUND: Healthcare costs are increasing rapidly and at an unsustainable rate in many countries, and inpatient hospitalizations are a significant driver of these costs. Clinical decision support (CDS) represents a promising approach to not only improve care but to reduce costs in the inpatient setting. The purpose of this study was to systematically review trials of CDS interventions with the potential to reduce inpatient costs, so as to identify promising interventions for more widespread implementation and to inform future research in this area. METHODS: To identify relevant studies, MEDLINE was searched up to July 2013. CDS intervention studies with the potential to reduce inpatient healthcare costs were identified through titles and abstracts, and full text articles were reviewed to make a final determination on inclusion. Relevant characteristics of the studies were extracted and summarized. RESULTS: Following a screening of 7,663 articles, 78 manuscripts were included. 78.2% of studies were controlled before-after studies, and 15.4% were randomized controlled trials. 53.8% of the studies were focused on pharmacotherapy. The majority of manuscripts were published during or after 2008. 70.5% of the studies resulted in statistically and clinically significant improvements in an explicit financial measure or a proxy financial measure. Only 12.8% of the studies directly measured the financial impact of an intervention, whereas the financial impact was inferred in the remainder of studies. Data on cost effectiveness was available for only one study. CONCLUSIONS: Significantly more research is required on the impact of clinical decision support on inpatient costs. In particular, there is a remarkable gap in the availability of cost effectiveness studies required by policy makers and decision makers in healthcare systems.			2013				3497
Effectiveness of early discharge planning in acutely ill or injured hospitalized older adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Fox, M. T., Persaud, M., Maimets, I., Brooks, D., O'Brien, K. and Tregunno, D.				bmc geriatrics	bmc geriatrics	BACKGROUND: Older age and higher acuity are associated with prolonged hospital stays and hospital readmissions. Early discharge planning may reduce lengths of hospital stay and hospital readmissions; however, its effectiveness with acutely admitted older adults is unclear. METHODS: In this systematic review, we compared the effectiveness of early discharge planning to usual care in reducing index length of hospital stay, hospital readmissions, readmission length of hospital stay, and mortality; and increasing satisfaction with discharge planning and quality of life for older adults admitted to hospital with an acute illness or injury.We searched the Cochrane Library, DARE, HTA, NHSEED, ACP, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Proquest Dissertations and Theses, PubMed, Web of Science, SciSearch, PEDro, Sigma Theta Tau International's registry of nursing research, Joanna Briggs Institute, CRISP, OT Seeker, and several internet search engines. Hand-searching was conducted in four gerontological journals and references of all included studies and previous systematic reviews. Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. Data were pooled using a random-effects meta-analysis. Where meta-analysis was not possible, narrative analysis was performed. RESULTS: Nine trials with a total of 1736 participants were included. Compared to usual care, early discharge planning was associated with fewer hospital readmissions within one to twelve months of index hospital discharge [risk ratio (RR) = 0.78, 95% CI = 0.69 - 0.90]; and lower readmission lengths of hospital stay within three to twelve months of index hospital discharge [weighted mean difference (WMD) = -2.47, 95% confidence intervals (CI) = -4.13 - -0.81)]. No differences were found in index length of hospital stay, mortality or satisfaction with discharge planning. Narrative analysis of four studies indicated that early discharge planning was associated with greater overall quality of life and the general health domain of quality of life two weeks after index hospital discharge. CONCLUSIONS: Early discharge planning with acutely admitted older adults improves system level outcomes after index hospital discharge. Service providers can use these findings to design and implement early discharge planning for older adults admitted to hospital with an acute illness or injury.			2013				3134
Control of household air pollution for child survival: estimates for intervention impacts		Bruce, N. G., Dherani, M. K., Das, J. K., Balakrishnan, K., Adair-Rohani, H., Bhutta, Z. A. and Pope, D.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Exposure to household air pollution (HAP) from cooking with solid fuels affects 2.8 billion people in developing countries, including children and pregnant women. The aim of this review is to propose intervention estimates for child survival outcomes linked to HAP. METHODS: Systematic reviews with meta-analysis were conducted for ages 0-59 months, for child pneumonia, adverse pregnancy outcomes, stunting and all-cause mortality. Evidence for each outcome was assessed against Bradford-Hill viewpoints, and GRADE used for certainty about intervention effect size for which all odds ratios (OR) are presented as protective effects. RESULTS: Reviews found evidence linking HAP exposure with child ALRI, low birth weight (LBW), stillbirth, preterm birth, stunting and all-cause mortality. Most studies were observational and rated low/very low in GRADE despite strong causal evidence for some outcomes; only one randomised trial was eligible.Intervention effect (OR) estimates of 0.64 (95% CI: 0.55, 0.75) for ALRI, 0.71 (0.65, 0.79) for LBW and 0.66 (0.54, 0.81) for stillbirth are proposed, specific outcomes for which causal evidence was sufficient. Exposure-response evidence suggests this is a conservative estimate for ALRI risk reduction expected with sustained, low exposure. Statistically significant protective ORs were also found for stunting [OR=0.79 (0.70, 0.89)], and in one study of pre-term birth [OR=0.70 (0.54, 0.90)], indicating these outcomes would also likely be reduced. Five studies of all-cause mortality had an OR of 0.79 (0.70, 0.89), but heterogenity precludes a reliable estimate for mortality impact. Although interventions including clean fuels and improved solid fuel stoves are available and can deliver low exposure levels, significant challenges remain in achieving sustained use at scale among low-income households. CONCLUSIONS: Reducing exposure to HAP could substantially reduce the risk of several child survival outcomes, including fatal pneumonia, and the proposed effects could be achieved by interventions delivering low exposures. Larger impacts are anticipated if WHO air quality guidelines are met. To achieve these benefits, clean fuels should be adopted where possible, and for other households the most effective solid fuel stoves promoted. To strengthen evidence, new studies with thorough exposure assessment are required, along with evaluation of the longer-term acceptance and impacts of interventions.			2013				4083
Providing information about options in patient decision aids		Feldman-Stewart, D., O'Brien, M. A., Clayman, M. L., Davison, B. J., Jimbo, M., Labrecque, M., Martin, R. W. and Shepherd, H.				bmc medical informatics and decision making	bmc medical informatics and decision making	"BACKGROUND: Legal, ethical, and psychological arguments indicate that patients need to receive information about their health situations before their care decisions are made. Patient decision aids (PtDAs) are designed to help patients make decisions; therefore, they should provide information that results in patients understanding their health situation. We reviewed studies that assessed the impact of PtDAs on patient knowledge and on their feeling of being uninformed. METHODS: Our data sources were a published Cochrane Collaboration review that included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published before 2010 and a systematic review we conducted of RCTs published in 2010. We included trials that compared 1) PtDAs to usual care, and 2) PtDAs with simple information to PtDAs with more detailed information. Outcomes included patients' knowledge and their feeling of being uninformed. Data were analyzed quantitatively and qualitatively. Meta-analyses of similar studies estimated the size of differences. RESULTS: Thirty-nine RCTs compared a PtDA to usual care and all showed higher knowledge scores for patients in the PtDA groups; a meta-analysis estimated the advantage at 14 (of 100) points. Sixteen (of 39) studies used the Feeling Uninformed subscale; a meta-analysis estimated a reduction of 7 (of 100) points in the PtDA group over usual care. Twenty-one studies compared simple- to more-detailed information in PtDAs. There was a small overall advantage for more detailed information on knowledge scores; a meta-analysis estimated the advantage at 5 (of 100) points. Only one study found higher mean knowledge scores for simpler information. Nine (of 21) studies reported using the Feeling Uninformed subscale and a meta-analysis suggested a reduction of 3 (of 100) points for the more-detailed PtDAs over those with simpler information. Only one study found that simpler information resulted in patients feeling more informed. CONCLUSIONS: It appears that PtDAs result in patients having higher knowledge scores and in reduced feelings of being uninformed over patients who receive usual care. It also appears that PtDAs with more detailed information generally result in slightly higher knowledge and lower ""Feeling Uninformed"" scores than those with simpler information, but the differences are small and can be reversed under some circumstances."			2013				3978
Mobile phone text messaging for promoting adherence to anti-tuberculosis treatment: a systematic review		Nglazi, M. D., Bekker, L. G., Wood, R., Hussey, G. D. and Wiysonge, C. S.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: Mobile phone text messaging (SMS) has the potential to promote adherence to tuberculosis treatment. This systematic review aims to synthesize current evidence on the effectiveness of SMS interventions in improving patients' adherence to tuberculosis treatment. METHODS: We searched electronic databases (PubMed, EMBASE, Science Citation Index), reference lists of relevant articles, conference proceedings, and selected websites for eligible studies available by 15 February 2013; regardless of language or publication status. Two authors independently screened selected eligible studies, and assessed risk of bias in included studies; resolving discrepancies by discussion and consensus. RESULTS: We identified four studies that compared the outcomes of the SMS intervention group with controls. Only one of the four studies was a randomized controlled trial. This was conducted in Argentina and the SMS intervention did not significantly improve adherence to tuberculosis treatment compared to self-administration of tuberculosis treatment (risk ratio [RR] 1.49, 95% confidence intervals [CI] 0.90 to 2.42). One of the non-randomized studies, conducted in South Africa, which compared SMS reminders to directly observed therapy short course (DOTS) reported similar rates of tuberculosis cure (62.35% vs. 66.4%) and treatment success (72.94% vs. 69.4%). A second study from South Africa, utilized SMS reminders when patients delayed in opening their pill bottles and reported increased tuberculosis cure (RR 2.32, 95% CI 1.60 to 3.36) and smear conversion (RR 1.62, 95% CI 1.09 to 2.42) rates compared to DOTS. In the third non-randomized study, conducted in Kenya, use of SMS reminders increased rates of clinic attendance on scheduled days compared to standard care (RR 1.56, 95% CI 1.06 to 2.29). Using the GRADE approach, we rate the quality of the evidence as low, mainly because of the high risk of bias and heterogeneity of effects across studies. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review indicates that there is a paucity of high-quality data on the effectiveness of SMS interventions for improving patients' adherence to tuberculosis treatment. The low quality of the current evidence implies that further studies (in particular randomized trials) on the subject are needed. In the interim, if the intervention is implemented outside research settings an impact evaluation is warranted.			2013				2868
Soy, red clover, and isoflavones and breast cancer: a systematic review		Fritz, H., Seely, D., Flower, G., Skidmore, B., Fernandes, R., Vadeboncoeur, S., Kennedy, D., Cooley, K., Wong, R., Sagar, S., Sabri, E. and Fergusson, D.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Soy and red clover isoflavones are controversial due to purported estrogenic activity and possible effects on breast cancer. We conducted a systematic review of soy and red clover for efficacy in improving menopausal symptoms in women with breast cancer, and for potential impact on risk of breast cancer incidence or recurrence. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, Embase, the Cochrane Library, and AMED from inception to March 2013 for human interventional or observational data pertaining to the safety and efficacy of soy and red clover isoflavones in patients with or at risk of breast cancer. RESULTS: Of 4179 records, we included a total of 131 articles: 40 RCTs, 11 uncontrolled trials, and 80 observational studies. Five RCTs reported on the efficacy of soy for hot flashes, showing no significant reductions in hot flashes compared to placebo. There is lack of evidence showing harm from use of soy with respect to risk of breast cancer or recurrence, based on long term observational data. Soy intake consistent with that of a traditional Japanese diet (2-3 servings daily, containing 25-50mg isoflavones) may be protective against breast cancer and recurrence. Human trials show that soy does not increase circulating estradiol or affect estrogen-responsive target tissues. Prospective data of soy use in women taking tamoxifen does not indicate increased risk of recurrence. Evidence on red clover is limited, however existing studies suggest that it may not possess breast cancer-promoting effects. CONCLUSION: Soy consumption may be associated with reduced risk of breast cancer incidence, recurrence, and mortality. Soy does not have estrogenic effects in humans. Soy intake consistent with a traditional Japanese diet appears safe for breast cancer survivors. While there is no clear evidence of harm, better evidence confirming safety is required before use of high dose (? 100 mg) isoflavones can be recommended for breast cancer patients.			2013				2966
The influence of anti-infective periodontal treatment on C-reactive protein: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Demmer, R. T., Trinquart, L., Zuk, A., Fu, B. C., Blomkvist, J., Michalowicz, B. S., Ravaud, P. and Desvarieux, M.				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: Periodontal infections are hypothesized to increase the risk of adverse systemic outcomes through inflammatory mechanisms. The magnitude of effect, if any, of anti-infective periodontal treatment on systemic inflammation is unknown, as are the patient populations most likely to benefit. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to test the hypothesis that anti-infective periodontal treatment reduces systemic c-reactive protein (CRP). METHODS AND FINDINGS: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL and CINAHL databases were searched using sensitivity-enhancing search terms. Eligible RCTs enrolled patients with periodontal infection, compared a clearly defined anti-infective periodontal intervention (experimental group) to an ""inactive control"" (no periodontal intervention) or to an ""active control"" (lower treatment intensity than the experimental group). Mean differences in final CRP values at the earliest post-treatment time point (typically 1-3 months) between experimental and control groups were analyzed using random-effects regression. Among 2,753 possible studies 20 were selected, which included 2,561 randomized patients(median=57). Baseline CRP values were >3.0 mg/L in 40% of trials. Among studies with a control group receiving no treatment, the mean difference in CRP final values among experimental treatment vs. control groups was -0.37 mg/L [95%CI=-0.64, -0.11], (P=0.005), favoring experimental treatment. Trials for which the experimental group received antibiotics had stronger effects (P for interaction=0.03) and the mean difference in CRP final values among experimental treatment vs. control was -0.75 mg/L [95%CI=-1.17,-0.33]. No treatment effect was observed among studies using an active treatment comparator. Treatment effects were stronger for studies that included patients with co-morbidities vs. studies that included ""systemically healthy"" patients, although the interaction was not significant (P=0.48). CONCLUSIONS: Anti-infective periodontal treatment results in short-term modest reductions in systemic CRP."			2013				3140
Probiotics for infantile colic: a systematic review		Anabrees, J., Indrio, F., Paes, B. and Alfaleh, K.				bmc pediatrics	bmc pediatrics	BACKGROUND: Infantile colic is a common paediatric condition which causes significant parental distress. Increased intestinal coliform colonization in addition to alteration in Lactobacillus abundance and distribution may play an important role in its pathogenesis. The objectives of this systematic review are to evaluate the efficacy of probiotic supplementation in the reduction of crying time and successful treatment of infantile colic. METHODS: Literature searches were conducted of MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. Only randomized controlled trials enrolling term, healthy infants with colic were included. A meta-analysis of included trials was performed utilizing the Cochrane Collaboration methodology. RESULTS: Three trials that enrolled 220 breastfed infants met inclusion criteria, of which 209 infants were available for analysis. Two of the studies were assessed as good quality. Lactobacillus reuteri (strains-American Type Culture Collection Strain 55730 and DSM 17 938) was the only species utilized in the therapeutic intervention. Two of the trials were industry funded. Probiotic supplementation compared to simethicone or placebo significantly and progressively shortened crying times to 7 days reaching a plateau at three weeks post initiation of therapy [mean difference -56.03 minutes; 95% CI (-59.92, -52.15)]. Similarly, probiotics compared to placebo significantly increased the treatment success of infantile colic with a relative risk (RR) of 0.06; 95% CI (0.01, 0.25) and a number needed to treat of 2. CONCLUSIONS: Although L. reuteri may be effective as a treatment strategy for crying in exclusively breastfed infants with colic, the evidence supporting probiotic use for the treatment of infant colic or crying in formula-fed infants remains unresolved. Results from larger rigorously designed studies will help draw more definitive conclusions.			2013				2643
Taurolidine lock solutions for the prevention of catheter-related bloodstream infections: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Liu, Y., Zhang, A. Q., Cao, L., Xia, H. T. and Ma, J. J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Catheter-related bloodstream infections (CRBSIs) are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in critically ill patients, contributing to prolonged hospital stays and increased costs. Whether taurolidine lock solutions (TLS) are beneficial for the prevention of CRBSIs remains controversial. In this meta-analysis, we aim to assess the efficacy of TLS for preventing CRBSIs. METHODS: We conducted a systematic search of PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. Eligible studies included randomized controlled trials that reported on the effects of TLS for preventing CRBSIs. The primary outcome in these studies was catheter-related bloodstream infections, with microbial distribution of CRBSI and catheter-associated thrombosis as secondary outcomes. Data were combined using random-effects models owing to significant clinical heterogeneity. RESULTS: Six randomized controlled trials (RCTs) conducted from 2004 through 2013 involving 431 patients and 86,078 catheter-days were included in the review. TLS were significantly associated with a lower incidence of CRBSIs when compared to heparin lock solutions (Risk Ratio [RR], 0.34; 95% Confidence Interval [CI], 0.21-0.55). Use of TLS significantly decreased the incidence of CRBSIs from gram-negative (G-) bacteria (P?=?0.004; RR, 0.27; CI, 0.11-0.65), and was associated with a non-significant decrease in gram-positive (G+) bacterial infections (P?=?0.07; RR, 0.41; CI, 0.15-1.09). No significant association was observed with TLS and catheter-associated thrombosis (RR, 1.99; CI, 0.75-5.28). CONCLUSIONS: The use of TLS reduced the incidence of CRBSIs without obvious adverse effects or bacterial resistance. However, the susceptibility of G+ and G- bacteria to taurolidine and the risk for catheter-associated thrombosis of TLS are indeterminate due to limited data. The results should be treated with caution due to the limited sample sizes and methodological deficiencies of included studies. Therefore, additional well-designed and adequately powered RCTs are needed to confirm these findings.			2013				3139
Effect of out-of-hospital noninvasive positive-pressure support ventilation in adult patients with severe respiratory distress: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Mal, S., McLeod, S., Iansavichene, A., Dukelow, A. and Lewell, M.				annals of emergency medicine	annals of emergency medicine	"STUDY OBJECTIVE: Noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation (NIPPV) is increasingly being used by emergency medical services (EMS) for treatment of patients in respiratory distress. The primary objective of this systematic review is to determine whether out-of-hospital NIPPV for treatment of adults with severe respiratory distress reduces inhospital mortality compared with ""standard"" therapy. Secondary objectives are to examine the need for invasive ventilation, hospital and ICU length of stay, and complications. METHODS: Electronic searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature were conducted and reference lists of relevant articles hand searched. Randomized controlled trials comparing out-of-hospital NIPPV with standard therapy in adults (aged ?16 years) with severe respiratory distress published in English were included. Two reviewers independently screened abstracts, assessed quality of the studies, and extracted data. Data were pooled with random-effects models and reported as risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) and number needed to treat (NNT). RESULTS: Seven randomized controlled trials were included, with a combined total of 632 patients; 313 in the standard therapy group and 319 in the NIPPV group. In patients treated with NIPPV, the pooled estimate showed a reduction in both inhospital mortality (RR 0.58; 95% CI 0.35 to 0.95; NNT=18) and need for invasive ventilation (RR 0.37; 95% CI 0.24 to 0.58; NNT=8). There was no difference in ICU or hospital length of stay. CONCLUSION: Out-of-hospital administration of NIPPV appears to be an effective therapy for adult patients with severe respiratory distress."			2014				3157
The new oral anti-coagulants and the phase 3 clinical trials - a systematic review of the literature		Tahir, F., Riaz, H., Riaz, T., Badshah, M. B., Riaz, I. B., Hamza, A. and Mohiuddin, H.				thrombosis journal	thrombosis journal	"BACKGROUND: Anticoagulation with vitamin K antagonists such as warfarin has historically been used for the long term management of patients with thromboembolic disease. However, these agents have a slow onset of action which requires bridging therapy with heparin and its analogues, which are available only in parenteral route. To overcome these limitations, new oral anticoagulants such as factor Xa inhibitors and direct thrombin inhibitors have been developed. The aim of this article is to systematically review the phase 3 clinical trials of new oral anticoagulants in common medical conditions. METHODS: We searched PubMed (Medline) from January 2007 to February 2013 using ""Oral anticoagulants"", ""New oral anticoagulants"", ""Randomized controlled trial"", ""Novel anticoagulants"", ""Apixaban"", ""Rivaroxaban"", ""Edoxaban"", ""Dabigatran etexilate"", ""Dabigatran"" and a combination of the above terms. The available evidence from the phase 3 RCTs was summarized on the basis of individual drug and the medical conditions categorized into ""atrial fibrillation"", ""acute coronary syndrome"", ""orthopedic surgery"", ""venous thromboembolism"" and ""medically ill patients"". RESULTS: Apixaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran have been found to be either non-inferior or superior to enoxaparin in prophylaxis of venous thromboembolism in knee and hip replacement with similar bleeding risk, superior to warfarin for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation with significant reduction in the risk of major bleeding, non-inferior to aspirin for reducing cardiovascular death and stroke in acute coronary syndrome with significant increase in the risk of major bleed. Rivaroxaban and dabigatran are also superior to the conventional agents in the management of symptomatic venous thromboembolism. However, compared to enoxaparin, apixaban and rivaroxaban use lead to significantly increased bleeding risk in medically ill patients. Additional studies evaluating the specific reversal agents of these new drugs for the management of life-threatening bleeding or other adverse effects are necessary. CONCLUSION: Considering their pharmacological properties, their efficacy and bleeding complications, the new oral agents offer a net favourable clinical profile in orthopedic surgery, atrial fibrillation, acute coronary syndrome and increase the risk of bleeding in critically ill patients. Further studies are necessary to determine the long term safety and to identify the specific reversal agents of these new drugs."			2013				3591
Patient initiated clinics for patients with chronic or recurrent conditions managed in secondary care: a systematic review of patient reported outcomes and patient and clinician satisfaction		Whear, R., Abdul-Rahman, A. K., Thompson-Coon, J., Boddy, K., Perry, M. G. and Stein, K.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	BACKGROUND: The cost to the NHS of missed or inappropriate hospital appointments is considerable. Alternative methods of appointment scheduling might be more flexible to patients' needs without jeopardising health and service quality. The objective was to systematically review evidence of patient initiated clinics in secondary care on patient reported outcomes among patients with chronic/recurrent conditions. METHODS: Seven databases were searched from inception to June 2013. Hand searching of included studies references was also conducted. Studies comparing the effects of patient initiated clinics with traditional consultant led clinics in secondary care for patients with long term chronic or recurrent diseases on health related quality of life and/or patient satisfaction were included. Data was extracted by one reviewer and checked by a second. Results were synthesised narratively. RESULTS: Seven studies were included in the review, these covered a total of 1,655 participants across three conditions: breast cancer, inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis. Quality of reporting was variable. Results showed no significant differences between the intervention and control groups for psychological and health related quality of life outcomes indicating no evidence of harm. Some patients reported significantly more satisfaction using patient-initiated clinics than usual care (p <?0.001). CONCLUSIONS: The results show potential for patient initiated clinics to result in greater patient and clinician satisfaction. The patient-consultant relationship appeared to play an important part in patient satisfaction and should be considered an important area of future research as should the presence or absence of a guidebook to aid self-management. Patient initiated clinics fit the models of care suggested by policy makers and so further research into long term outcomes for patients and service use in this area of practice is both relevant and timely.			2013				3641
Long-term survival of dental implants placed in the grafted maxillary sinus: systematic review and meta-analysis of treatment modalities		Duttenhoefer, F., Souren, C., Menne, D., Emmerich, D., Schön, R. and Sauerbier, S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: A prevalent modality to increase the amount of available bone prior to implantation is grafting of the maxillary sinus. Multiple factors such as the surgical technique, moment of implant placement as well as grafting materials and membranes are known to affect implant survival. However, the role of different factor combinations and associated reciprocal effects remain unclear. Conventional statistical methods do not consider inconsistency of study designs and do not take covariables into account. Hence, a systematic research and meta-analysis was conducted to investigate the influence of various treatment modalities on implant survival in the grafted maxillary sinus. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A meta-analysis was conducted according to the PRISMA guidelines. Articles published from 1980 through January 2013 were electronically and manually searched in MEDLINE (Ovid), the Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials, the Database of Abstracts of Effects, and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Clinical reports on single intervention sinus augmentation with root-form implants, a minimum of 10 patients and 6 months of loading were eligible for inclusion if implant survival was stated or calculable. Results were calculated by non-parametric univariate Kaplan-Meier analysis and Bayesian multivariate interval-censored Cox regression. RESULTS: A total of 122 publications on 16268 endosseous implants placed in grafted maxillary sinus were included. The treatment parameters surgical approach, grafting material and implant type showed no selective preference. However, application of membranes showed a significantly reduced hazard-ratio, independent of other co-factors. CONCLUSIONS: The use of membranes is the most significant factor to achieve long-term implant survival in sinus augmentation procedures. More data exceeding 3 years follow-up are needed to address prospective confounding and improve clinical evidence.			2013				3528
Vaccines for the prevention of diarrhea due to cholera, shigella, ETEC and rotavirus		Das, J. K., Tripathi, A., Ali, A., Hassan, A., Dojosoeandy, C. and Bhutta, Z. A.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Diarrhea is a leading cause of mortality in children under 5 years along with its long-term impact on growth and cognitive development. Despite advances in the understanding of diarrheal disorders and management strategies, globally nearly 750,000 children die annually as a consequence of diarrhea. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of the efficacy and effectiveness studies. We used a standardized abstraction and grading format and performed meta-analyses for all outcomes. The estimated effect of cholera, shigella, Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) and rotavirus vaccines was determined by applying the standard Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group (CHERG) rules. RESULTS: A total of 24 papers were selected and analyzed for all the four vaccines. Based on the evidence, we propose a 74% mortality reduction in rotavirus specific mortality, 52% reduction in cholera incidence due to their respective vaccines. We did not find sufficient evidence and a suitable outcome to project mortality reductions for cholera, ETEC and shigella in children under 5 years. CONCLUSION: Vaccines for rotavirus and cholera have the potential to reduce diarrhea morbidity and mortality burden. But there is no substantial evidence of efficacy for ETEC and shigella vaccines, although several promising vaccine concepts are moving from the development and testing pipeline towards efficacy and Phase 3 trials.			2013				3858
Systematic review and meta-analysis of the effectiveness of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) on glucose control in diabetes		Poolsup, N., Suksomboon, N. and Kyaw, A. M.				diabetology & metabolic syndrome	diabetology & metabolic syndrome	Diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease that necessitates continuing treatment and patient self-care education. Monitoring of blood glucose to near normal level without hypoglycemia becomes a challenge in the management of diabetes. Although self monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) can provide daily monitoring of blood glucose level and help to adjust therapy, it cannot detect hypoglycemic unawareness and nocturnal hypoglycemia which occurred mostly in T1DM pediatrics. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) offers continuous glucose data every 5 minutes to adjust insulin therapy especially for T1DM patients and to monitor lifestyle intervention especially for T2DM patients by care providers or even patients themselves. The main objective of this study was to assess the effects of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) on glycemic control in Type 1 diabetic pediatrics and Type 2 diabetic adults by collecting randomized controlled trials from MEDLINE (pubmed), SCOPUS, CINAHL, Web of Science and The Cochrane Library up to May 2013 and historical search through the reference lists of relevant articles. There are two types of CGM device: real-time CGM and retrospective CGM and both types of the device were included in the analysis. In T1DM pediatrics, CGM use was no more effective than SMBG in reducing HbA1c [mean difference - 0.13% (95% CI -0.38% to 0.11%,]. This effect was independent of HbA1c level at baseline. Subgroup analysis indicated that retrospective CGM was not superior to SMBG [mean difference -0.05% (95% CI -0.46% to 0.35%)]. In contrast, real-time CGM revealed better effect in lowering HbA1c level compared with SMBG [mean difference -0.18% (95% CI -0.35% to -0.02%, p?=?0.02)]. In T2DM adults, significant reduction in HbA1c level was detected with CGM compared with SMBG [mean difference - 0.31% (95% CI -0.6% to -0.02%, p?=?0.04)]. This systematic review and meta-analysis suggested that real-time CGM can be more effective than SMBG in T1DM pediatrics, though retrospective CGM was not. CGM provided better glycemic control in T2DM adults compared with SMBG.			2013				3145
Internet-based interventions for eating disorders in adults: a systematic review		Dölemeyer, R., Tietjen, A., Kersting, A. and Wagner, B.				bmc psychiatry	bmc psychiatry	BACKGROUND: This systematic review evaluates the efficacy of internet-based interventions for the treatment of different eating disorders in adults. METHOD: A search for peer reviewed journal articles detailing Randomised Control Trials (RCT) and Controlled Trials (CT) addressing participants with eating disorders aged at least 16 was completed in the electronic databases Web of Science, PsycInfo and PubMed. The quality of the included articles was assessed, results were reviewed and effect sizes and corresponding confidence intervals were calculated. RESULTS: Eight studies, including a total of N = 609 participants, fulfilled the selection criteria and were included. The majority of treatments applied in these studies were based on CBT principles. Six studies described guided self-help interventions that showed significant symptom reduction in terms of primary and secondary outcomes regarding eating behaviour and abstinence rates. These studies produced significant medium to high effect sizes both within and between the groups after utilisation of guided self-help programs or a self-help book backed up with supportive e-mails. The two remaining studies utilised a specific writing task or e-mail therapy that did not follow a structured treatment program. Here, no significant effects could be found. Treatment dropout rates ranged from 9% to 47.2%. Furthermore, reductions in other symptoms, for example depression and anxiety, and an increase in quality of life were found by four studies. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the results support the value of internet-based interventions that use guided self-help to tackle eating disorders, but further research is needed due to the heterogeneity of the studies.			2013				2692
Compliance with the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet: a systematic review		Kwan, M. W., Wong, M. C., Wang, H. H., Liu, K. Q., Lee, C. L., Yan, B. P., Yu, C. M. and Griffiths, S. M.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet has been recognized as effective to lower blood pressure in feeding trials, but compliance with the diet must be persistent to maximize health benefits in clinical practice. This paper reports a systematic review of the latest evidence on the method to assess DASH compliance and the corresponding patients' compliance in interventional settings. METHODS: The databases including MEDLINE, EBM Reviews, EMBASE, and CINAHL Plus were searched for original research studies published in the period of January 1992-December 2012 that evaluated compliance with DASH diet. Studies written in English language, with DASH intervention, with complete documentation of the degree of DASH compliance and the assessment method used were included in this review. The search terms included: dietary approaches to stop hypertension, DASH, compliance, adherence, consistency, and concordance. RESULTS: Nine studies were included. Different types of interventions were identified, ranging from feeding trial to dietary counseling. These studies differed in the assessment methods used to evaluate DASH compliance, which included objective approaches like measurement of urinary excretion, and subjective approaches like dietary intake assessment for DASH target comparison and construction of DASH scoring systems. Compliance levels were lower in educational interventions than that of the original DASH feeding trial. CONCLUSIONS: To conclude, although no consensus existed regarding the best approach to assess DASH compliance, its suboptimal compliance warrants attention. This study implied a need to investigate effective approaches to sustain the DASH dietary pattern beyond counselling alone.			2013				2820
Efficacy and safety of lanthanum carbonate on chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder in dialysis patients: a systematic review		Zhang, C., Wen, J., Li, Z. and Fan, J.				bmc nephrology	bmc nephrology	BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD) is a common complication in CKD patients, particularly in those with end-stage renal disease that requires dialysis. Lanthanum carbonate (LC) is a potent, non-aluminum, non-calcium phosphate binder. This systematic review evaluates the efficacy and safety of LC in CKD-MBD treatment for maintenance-dialysis patients. METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis on randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs was performed to assess the efficacy and safety of LC in maintenance hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis patients. Analysis was performed using the statistical software Review Manager 5.1. RESULTS: Sixteen RCTs involving 3789 patients were identified and retained for this review. No statistical difference was found in all-cause mortality. The limited number of trials was insufficient to show the superiority of LC over other treatments in lowering vascular calcification or cardiovascular events and in improving bone morphology, bone metabolism, or bone turn-over parameters. LC decreased the serum phosphorus level and calcium × phosphate product (Ca × P) as compared to placebo. LC, calcium carbonate (CC), and sevelamer hydrochloride (SH) were comparable in terms of controlling the serum phosphorus, Ca × P product, and intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) levels. However, LC resulted in a lower serum calcium level and a higher bone-specific alkaline phosphatase level compared with CC. LC had higher total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels compared with SH. LC-treated patients appeared to have a higher rate of vomiting and lower risk of hypercalcemia, diarrhea, intradialytic hypotension, cramps or myalgia, and abdominal pain. Meta-analysis showed no significant difference in the incidence of other side effects. Accumulation of LC in blood and bone was below toxic levels. CONCLUSIONS: LC has high efficacy in lowering serum phosphorus and iPTH levels without increasing the serum calcium. Current evidence does not show a higher rate of adverse effects for LC compared with other treatments, except for a higher incidence of vomiting. Moreover, LC accumulation in blood and bone was below toxic levels. Well-designed studies should be conducted to evaluate the long-term effects of LC.			2013				2953
Bisphosphonates for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in patients with rheumatic diseases: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Feng, Z., Zeng, S., Wang, Y., Zheng, Z. and Chen, Z.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: While bisphosphonates (BPs) are commonly used in clinical treatment for osteoporosis, their roles on osteoporosis treatment for rheumatic patients remain unclear. We performed a meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy of BPs on fractures prevention and bone mass preserving in rheumatic patients. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We searched PubMed, EmBase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials for relevant literatures with a time limit of Jan. 6, 2012. All randomized clinical trials of BPs for adult rheumatic patients with a follow-up of 6 months or more were included. We calculated relative risks (RRs) for fractures and weighted mean difference (WMD) for percent change of bone mineral density (BMD). Twenty trials were included for analysis. The RR in rheumatic patients treated with BPs was 0.61 (95%CI [0.44, 0.83], P?=?0.002) for vertebral fractures, and 0.49 (95%CI [0.23, 1.02], P?=?0.06) for non-vertebral fractures. The WMD of BMD change in the lumbar spine was 3.72% (95%CI [2.72, 4.72], P<0.001) at 6 months, 3.67% (95%CI [2.84, 4.50], P<0.001) at 12 months, 3.64% (95%CI [2.59, 4.69], P<0.001) at 24 months, and 5.87% (95%CI [4.59, 7.15], P<0.001) at 36 months in patients using BPs, as compared with those treated with calcium, vitamin D or calcitonin. In subgroup analyses, rheumatic patients using BPs for osteoporosis prevention had greater WMD than those using BPs for treating osteoporosis at 6 months (4.53% vs. 2.73%, P?=?0.05) and 12 months (4.93% vs. 2.91%, P?=?0.01). CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: In both short-term and middle-term, BPs can preserve bone mass and reduce the incidence of vertebral fractures in rheumatic patients, mainly for those who have GC consumption. The efficacy of BPs is better when using BPs to prevent rather than to treat osteoporosis in rheumatic patients.			2013				3538
Interventions to encourage discussion of end-of-life preferences between members of the general population and the people closest to them - a systematic literature review		Abba, K., Byrne, P., Horton, S. and Lloyd-Williams, M.				bmc palliative care	bmc palliative care	BACKGROUND: Discussing end of life preferences can be beneficial, and it is thought that the best time to have these conversations is usually when people are well. This review aims to establish current evidence for the effectiveness of community-based interventions to encourage people to consider, and to discuss with those closest to them, their preferences for end of life care or what they wish to happen after their death. METHODS: A systematic literature review was undertaken. A systematic search was conducted using Scopus and Google, and academic experts were contacted. Studies were included if they evaluated interventions intended to encourage people to discuss their end of life preferences with those closest to them, or to address known barriers to these discussions. Reported outcomes had to relate to attitude or behaviour change in the target group, or target group perceptions of the intervention. Studies were excluded if the intervention targeted only people with a life-limiting illness, or intended specifically to facilitate communication of end of life preferences between patients and healthcare staff. Studies were systematically described and assessed for quality. There was no attempt to combine results of different studies. RESULTS: The Scopus search identified 5,743 citations, and the Google search identified over 40,000, of which the first 40 pages were scanned. Five studies were included, four identified through the Scopus search and one from a book identified through Google. Three studies reported positive results, two were less positive. A peer education programme on end of life planning for older people, featuring small discussion workshops, was positively appraised by participants. An arts project bringing hospice users and school pupils together appeared to help normalise death for school pupils. A public information 'roadshow' engaged people using an informal questionnaire survey, facilitating conversations between people who participated together. Public lectures by physicians intending to promoting home death as a possibility were unsuccessful in changing attitudes at six months follow-up. A module on end of life planning delivered as part of 'expert patient' education programme on the management of chronic illness was not well received by participants. CONCLUSIONS: Available evidence highlights the importance of actively engaging people rather than passively providing information, and of ensuring an appropriate context for interventions. However, data are limited and there is a need for more research and for sharing of best practice.			2013				3202
Treatment of chronic HCV genotype 1 infection with telaprevir: a Bayesian mixed treatment comparison of fixed-length and response-guided treatment regimens in treatment-naïve and -experienced patients		Goralczyk, A. D., Cameron, S. and Amanzada, A.				bmc gastroenterology	bmc gastroenterology	BACKGROUND: Telaprevir (TVR) has been approved for response-guided-therapy (RGT) of chronic hepatitis C (HCV) genotype-1-infection in treatment-naïve and -experienced patients. In RGT-regimens patients that did not achieve extended rapid-virological-response (eRVR) within the first 4-12 weeks undergo treatment for 48-weeks, whereas in fixed-length-treatment (FLT) patients are treated for a fixed-duration regardless of their RVR. METHODS: This systematic review and Bayesian mixed-treatment-comparison (MTC) aimed to compare the efficacy and safety of standard-therapy with pegylated-interferon-?/ribavirin (Peg-IFN-?/RBV (48 weeks), group A), FLT with TVR, Peg-IFN-?/RBV for 12 weeks with a long (+36 weeks, group B) or short (+12 weeks, group C) tail of Peg-IFN-?/RBV treatment, and RGT with 12 weeks of TVR, Peg-IFN-?/RBV followed by 12 weeks of Peg-IFN-?/RBV (group D) or no therapy (group E). RESULTS: We identified seven randomized controlled trials including 3505 patients. Compared to standard-treatment (group A), treatment-naïve patients allocated to groups B, C, and D were significantly more likely to achieve sustained-virological-response (SVR, odds ratios (OR): B vs. A 3.5 (credibility interval [CrI] 2.2-5.4), C vs. A 3.0 (CrI 1.8-4.9), D vs. A 3.4 (CrI 2.5-4.6)). Treatment-experienced patients achieved increased SVR rates when they were treated in group B (OR: 8.2 (CrI 5.0-13.5)), C (OR 7.0 (CrI 3.9-12.8)), or simulated group D (OR 8.2 (CrI 4.3-15.3)). Patients treated with short RGT (simulated group E) did also have a significant improvement when they were treatment-experienced (simulated OR 3.6 (CrI 1.6-8.2)), whereas the effect was not significant in treatment-naïve patients (OR E vs. A 1.6 (CrI 0.9-2.7)). CONCLUSION: Long FLT and RGT regimens are useful treatment options for HCV-genotype-1 in both treatment-naïve and -experienced patients. A short 24-weeks FLT regimen does not seem to be inferior and should further be evaluated in clinical trials to reduce side effects and costs of treatment.			2013				4036
Effectiveness of Home Visiting in Improving Child Health and Reducing Child Maltreatment		Avellar, S. A. and Supplee, L. H.				pediatrics	pediatrics	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act established the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program, which provides $1.5 billion to states over 5 years for home visiting program models serving at-risk pregnant women and children from birth to age 5. The act stipulates that 75% of the funds must be used for programs with evidence of effectiveness based on rigorous evaluation research. Home Visiting Evidence of Effectiveness reviewed the home visiting research literature and provided an assessment of the evidence of effectiveness for program models that serve families with pregnant women and children from birth to age 5. METHODS: Home Visiting Evidence of Effectiveness included a systematic search and screening process, a review of the research quality, and an assessment of program effectiveness. Reviewers rated studies' capacity to provide unbiased estimates of program impacts and determined whether a program met the Department of Health and Human Services' criteria for an evidence-based model. RESULTS: As of July 2012, 32 models were reviewed, of which 12 met the Department of Health and Human Services criteria. Most of these models were shown to have favorable effects on child development. Other common favorable effects included health care usage and reductions in child maltreatment. Less common were favorable effects on birth outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Home visiting is a promising way to serve families who may be difficult to engage in supportive services. Existing rigorous research indicates that home visiting has the potential for positive results among high-risk families, particularly on health care usage and child development.			2013				3898
The clinical effectiveness of patient initiated clinics for patients with chronic or recurrent conditions managed in secondary care: a systematic review		Whear, R., Abdul-Rahman, A. K., Boddy, K., Thompson-Coon, J., Perry, M. and Stein, K.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Missed or inappropriate hospital appointments cost the UK National Health Service millions of pounds each year and delay treatment for other patients. Innovative methods of appointment scheduling that are more flexible to patient needs, may improve service quality and preserve resources. METHODS: A systematic review of the evidence for the clinical effectiveness of patient initiated clinics in managing long term care for people with chronic or recurrent conditions in secondary care. Seven databases were searched including MEDLINE, Embase and PsycINFO (using the OVID interface), the Cochrane Library of Systematic Reviews and CENTRAL, Science Citation Index Expanded, Social Sciences Citation Index, and Conference Proceedings Citation Index (via the Web of Science interface) from inception to June 2013. Studies comparing patient initiated clinics with traditional consultant-led clinics in secondary care for people with long term chronic or recurrent diseases were included. Included studies had to provide data on clinical or resource use outcomes. Data were extracted and checked by two reviewers using a piloted, standardised data extraction form. RESULTS: Eight studies (n?=?1927 individuals) were included. All were conducted in the UK. There were few significant differences in clinical outcomes between the intervention and control groups. In some instances, using the patient initiated clinics model was associated with savings in time and resource use. The risk of harm from using the patient initiated clinic model of organising outpatient care is low. Studies with longer follow-up periods are needed to assess the long term costs and the ongoing risk of potential harms. CONCLUSIONS: The UK policy context is ripe for evidence-based, patient-centred services to be implemented, especially where the use of health care resources can be optimised without reducing the quality of care. Implementation of patient initiated clinics should remain cautious, with importance placed on ongoing evaluation of long term outcomes and costs.			2013				3196
The effect of umbilical cord cleansing with chlorhexidine on omphalitis and neonatal mortality in community settings in developing countries: a meta-analysis		Imdad, A., Mullany, L. C., Baqui, A. H., El Arifeen, S., Tielsch, J. M., Khatry, S. K., Shah, R., Cousens, S., Black, R. E. and Bhutta, Z. A.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: There is an increased risk of serious neonatal infection arising through exposure of the umbilical cord to invasive pathogen in home and facility births where hygienic practices are difficult to achieve. The World Health Organization currently recommends 'dry cord care' because of insufficient data in favor of or against topical application of an antiseptic. The primary objective of this meta-analysis is to evaluate the effects of application of chlorhexidine (CHX) to the umbilical cord to children born in low income countries on cord infection (omphalitis) and neonatal mortality. Standardized guidelines of Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group (CHERG) were followed to generate estimates of effectiveness of topical chlorhexidine application to umbilical cord for prevention of sepsis specific mortality, for inclusion in the Lives Saved Tool (LiST). METHODS: Systematic review and meta-analysis. Data sources included Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in the Cochrane Library, PubMed, CINHAL and WHO international clinical trials registry. Only randomized trials were included. Studies of children in hospital settings were excluded. The comparison group received no application to the umbilical cord (dry cord care), no intervention, or a non-CHX intervention. Primary outcomes were omphalitis and all-cause neonatal mortality. RESULTS: There were three cluster-randomised community trials (total participants 54,624) conducted in Nepal, Bangladesh and Pakistan that assessed impact of CHX application to the newborn umbilical cord for prevention of cord infection and mortality. Application of any CHX to the umbilical cord of the newborn led to a 23% reduction in all-cause neonatal mortality in the intervention group compared to control [RR 0.77, 95 % CI 0.63, 0.94; random effects model, I2=50 %]. The reduction in omphalitis ranged from 27 % to 56 % compared to control group depending on severity of infection. Based on CHERG rules, effect size for all-cause mortality was used for inclusion to LiST model as a proxy for sepsis specific mortality. CONCLUSIONS: Application of CHX to newborn umbilical cord can significantly reduce incidence of umbilical cord infection and all-cause mortality among home births in community settings. This inexpensive and simple intervention can save a significant number of newborn lives in developing countries.			2013				4087
Evidence for the diagnosis and treatment of acute uncomplicated sinusitis in children: a systematic review		Smith, M. J.				pediatrics	pediatrics	In 2001, the American Academy of Pediatrics published clinical practice guidelines for the management of acute bacterial sinusitis (ABS) in children. The technical report accompanying those guidelines included 21 studies that assessed the diagnosis and management of ABS in children. This update to that report incorporates studies of pediatric ABS that have been performed since 2001. Overall, 17 randomized controlled trials of the treatment of sinusitis in children were identified and analyzed. Four randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of antimicrobial therapy have been published. The results of these studies varied, likely due to differences in inclusion and exclusion criteria. Because of this heterogeneity, formal meta-analyses were not performed. However, qualitative analysis of these studies suggests that children with greater severity of illness at presentation are more likely to benefit from antimicrobial therapy. An additional 5 trials compared different antimicrobial therapies but did not include placebo groups. Six trials assessed a variety of ancillary treatments for ABS in children,and 3 focused on subacute sinusitis. Although the number of pediatric trials has increased since 2001, there are still limited data to guide the diagnosis and management of ABS in children. Diagnostic and treatment guidelines focusing on severity of illness at the time of presentation have the potential to identify those children most likely to benefit from antimicrobial therapy and at the same time minimize unnecessary use of antibiotics			2013				3346
The health economic impact of disease management programs for COPD: a systematic literature review and meta-analysis		Boland, M. R., Tsiachristas, A., Kruis, A. L., Chavannes, N. H. and Rutten-van Mölken, M. P.				bmc pulmonary medicine	bmc pulmonary medicine	BACKGROUND: There is insufficient evidence of the cost-effectiveness of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) Disease Management (COPD-DM) programs. The aim of this review is to evaluate the economic impact of COPD-DM programs and investigate the relation between the impact on healthcare costs and health outcomes. We also investigated the impact of patient-, intervention, and study-characteristics. METHODS: We conducted a systematic literature review to identify cost-effectiveness studies of COPD-DM. Where feasible, results were pooled using random-effects meta-analysis and explorative subgroup analyses were performed. RESULTS: Sixteen papers describing 11 studies were included (7 randomized control trials (RCT), 2 pre-post, 2 case-control). Meta-analysis showed that COPD-DM led to hospitalization savings of 1060 (95% CI: 2040 to 80) per patient per year and savings in total healthcare utilization of 898 (95% CI: 1566 to 231) (excl. operating costs). In these health economic studies small but positive results on health outcomes were found, such as the St Georges Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) score, which decreased with 1.7 points (95% CI: 0.5-2.9). There was great variability in DM interventions-, study- and patient-characteristics. There were indications that DM showed greater savings in studies with: severe COPD patients, patients with a history of exacerbations, RCT study design, high methodological quality, few different professions involved in the program, and study setting outside Europe. CONCLUSIONS: COPD-DM programs were found to have favourable effects on both health outcomes and costs, but there is considerable heterogeneity depending on patient-, intervention-, and study-characteristics.			2013				2843
Effect of community based interventions on childhood diarrhea and pneumonia: uptake of treatment modalities and impact on mortality		Das, J. K., Lassi, Z. S., Salam, R. A. and Bhutta, Z. A.				bmc public health	bmc public health	INTRODUCTION: Diarrhea and pneumonia are the two leading causes of mortality in children under five. Improvements have occurred over the past two decades but the progress is slow to meet the MDG-4. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of the randomized controlled trials, quasi-experimental and observational studies to estimate the effect of community based interventions including community case management on the coverage of various commodities and on mortality due to diarrhea and pneumonia. We used a standardized abstraction and grading format and performed meta-analyses for all the relevant outcomes. The estimated effect of community based interventions was determined by applying the standard Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group (CHERG) rules. RESULTS: We included twenty four studies in this review. Community based interventions led to significant rise in care seeking behaviors with 13% and 9% increase in care seeking for pneumonia and diarrhea respectively. These interventions were associated with 160% increase in the use of ORS and 80% increase in the use of zinc for diarrhea. There was a 75% decline in the unnecessary use of antibiotics for diarrhea and a 40% decrease in treatment failure rates for pneumonia. Community case management for diarrhea and pneumonia is associated with a 32% reduction in pneumonia specific mortality, while the evidence on diarrhea related mortality is weak. CONCLUSION: Community based interventions have the potential to scale up care seeking and the use of essential commodities and significantly decrease morbidity and mortality burden due to diarrhea and pneumonia in children under the age of five years.			2013				3763
Breastfeeding for reducing the risk of pneumonia morbidity and mortality in children under two: a systematic literature review and meta-analysis		Lamberti, L. M., Zakarija-Grkovi?, I., Fischer Walker, C. L., Theodoratou, E., Nair, H., Campbell, H. and Black, R. E.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Suboptimal breastfeeding practices among infants and young children <24 months of age are associated with elevated risk of pneumonia morbidity and mortality. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to quantify the protective effects of breastfeeding exposure against pneumonia incidence, prevalence, hospitalizations and mortality. METHODS: We conducted a systematic literature review of studies assessing the risk of selected pneumonia morbidity and mortality outcomes by varying levels of breastfeeding exposure among infants and young children <24 months of age. We used random effects meta-analyses to generate pooled effect estimates by outcome, age and exposure level. RESULTS: Suboptimal breastfeeding elevated the risk of pneumonia morbidity and mortality outcomes across age groups. In particular, pneumonia mortality was higher among not breastfed compared to exclusively breastfed infants 0-5 months of age (RR: 14.97; 95% CI: 0.67-332.74) and among not breastfed compared to breastfed infants and young children 6-23 months of age (RR: 1.92; 95% CI: 0.79-4.68). CONCLUSIONS: Our results highlight the importance of breastfeeding during the first 23 months of life as a key intervention for reducing pneumonia morbidity and mortality.			2013				2958
Impact of education and provision of complementary feeding on growth and morbidity in children less than 2 years of age in developing countries: a systematic review		Lassi, Z. S., Das, J. K., Zahid, G., Imdad, A. and Bhutta, Z. A.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: About one third of deaths in children less than 5 years of age are due to underlying undernutrition. According to an estimate, 19.4% of children <5 years of age in developing countries were underweight (weight-for-age Z score <-2) and about 29.9% were stunted in the year 2011 (height-for-age Z score <-2). It is well recognized that the period of 6-24 months of age is one of the most critical time for the growth of the infant. METHODS: We included randomized, non-randomized trials and programs on the effect of complementary feeding (CF) (fortified or unfortified, but not micronutrients alone) and education on CF on children less than 2 years of age in low and middle income countries (LMIC). Studies that delivered intervention for at least 6 months were included; however, studies in which intervention was given for supplementary and therapeutic purposes were excluded. Recommendations are made for input to the Lives Saved Tool (LiST) model by following standardized guidelines developed by Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group (CHERG). RESULTS: We included 16 studies in this review. Amongst these, 9 studies provided education on complementary feeding, 6 provided complementary feeding (with our without education) and 1 provided both as separate arms. Overall, education on CF alone significantly improved HAZ (SMD 0.23; 95% CI: 0.09, 0.36), WAZ (SMD 0.16, 95% CI: 0.05, 0.27), and significantly reduced the rates of stunting (RR 0.71; 95% CI: 0.56, 0.91). While no significant impact were observed for height and weight gain. Based on the subgroup analysis; ten studies from food secure populations indicated education on CF had a significant impact on height gain, HAZ scores, and weight gain, however, stunting reduced non-significantly. In food insecure population, CF education alone significantly improved HAZ scores, WAZ scores and significantly reduced the rates of stunting, while CF provision with or without education improved HAZ and WAZ scores significantly. CONCLUSION: Complementary feeding interventions have a potential to improve the nutritional status of children in developing countries. However, large scale high quality randomized controlled trials are required to assess the actual impact of this intervention on growth and morbidity in children 6-24 months of age. Education should be combined with provision of complementary foods that are affordable, particularly for children in food insecure countries.			2013				3642
Oral antibiotic therapy for the treatment of infective endocarditis: a systematic review		Al-Omari, A., Cameron, D. W., Lee, C. and Corrales-Medina, V. F.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: The role of oral antibiotic therapy in treating infective endocarditis (IE) is not well established. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE and Scopus for studies in which oral antibiotic therapy was used for the treatment of IE. RESULTS: Seven observational studies evaluating the use oral beta-lactams (five), oral ciprofloxacin in combination with rifampin (one), and linezolid (one) for the treatment of IE caused by susceptible bacteria reported cure rates between 77% and 100%. Two other observational studies using aureomycin or sulfonamide, however, had failure rates >75%. One clinical trial comparing oral amoxicillin versus intravenous ceftriaxone for streptococcal IE reported 100% cure in both arms but its reporting had serious methodological limitations. One small clinical trial (n = 85) comparing oral ciprofloxacin and rifampin versus conventional intravenous antibiotic therapy for uncomplicated right-sided S. aureus IE in intravenous drug users (IVDUs) reported cure rates of 89% and 90% in each arm, respectively (P =0.9); however, drug toxicities were more common in the latter group (62% versus 3%; P <0.01). Major limitations of this trial were lack of allocation concealment and blinding at the delivery of the study drug(s) and assessment of outcomes. CONCLUSION: Reported cure rates for IE treated with oral antibiotic regimens vary widely. The use of oral ciprofloxacin in combination with rifampin for uncomplicated right-sided S. aureus IE in IVDUs is supported by one small clinical trial of relatively good quality and could be considered when conventional IV antibiotic therapy is not possible.			2014				3469
Psychometric properties of the Late-Life Function and Disability Instrument: A systematic review		Beauchamp, Marla K., Schmidt, Catherine T., Pedersen, Mette M., Bean, Jonathan F. and Jette, Alan M.				bmc geriatrics	bmc geriatrics	BACKGROUND: The choice of measure for use as a primary outcome in geriatric research is contingent upon the construct of interest and evidence for its psychometric properties. The Late-Life Function and Disability Instrument (LLFDI) has been widely used to assess functional limitations and disability in studies with older adults. The primary aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the current available evidence for the psychometric properties of the LLFDI. METHODS: Published studies of any design reporting results based on administration of the original version of the LLFDI in community-dwelling older adults were identified after searches of 9 electronic databases. Data related to construct validity (convergent/divergent and known-groups validity), test-retest reliability and sensitivity to change were extracted. Effect sizes were calculated for within-group changes and summarized graphically. RESULTS: Seventy-one studies including 17,301 older adults met inclusion criteria. Data supporting the convergent/divergent and known-groups validity for both the Function and Disability components were extracted from 30 and 18 studies, respectively. High test-retest reliability was found for the Function component, while results for the Disability component were more variable. Sensitivity to change of the LLFDI was confirmed based on findings from 25 studies. The basic lower extremity subscale and overall summary score of the Function component and limitation dimension of the Disability component were associated with the strongest relative effect sizes. CONCLUSIONS: There is extensive evidence to support the construct validity and sensitivity to change of the LLFDI among various clinical populations of community-dwelling older adults. Further work is needed on predictive validity and values for clinically important change. Findings from this review can be used to guide the selection of the most appropriate LLFDI subscale for use an outcome measure in geriatric research and practice. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)			2014				2870
Does physical activity prevent cognitive decline and dementia?: A systematic review and meta-analysis of longitudinal studies		Blondell, S. J., Hammersley-Mather, R. and Veerman, J. L.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: By 2050, it has been estimated that approximately one-fifth of the population will be made up of older adults (aged ?60 years). Old age often comes with cognitive decline and dementia. Physical activity may prevent cognitive decline and dementia. METHODS: We reviewed and synthesised prospective studies into physical activity and cognitive decline, and physical activity and dementia, published until January 2014. Forty-seven cohorts, derived from two previous systematic reviews and an updated database search, were used in the meta-analyses. Included participants were aged ?40 years, in good health and/or randomly selected from the community. Studies were assessed for methodological quality. RESULTS: Twenty-one cohorts on physical activity and cognitive decline and twenty-six cohorts on physical activity and dementia were included. Meta-analysis, using the quality-effects model, suggests that participants with higher levels of physical activity, when compared to those with lower levels, are at reduced risk of cognitive decline, RR 0.65, 95% CI 0.55-0.76, and dementia, RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.76-0.97. Sensitivity analyses revealed a more conservative estimate of the impact of physical activity on cognitive decline and dementia for high quality studies, studies reporting effect sizes as ORs, greater number of adjustments (?10), and longer follow-up time (?10 years). When one heavily weighted study was excluded, physical activity was associated with an 18% reduction in the risk of dementia (RR 0.82; 0.73-0.91). CONCLUSIONS: Longitudinal observational studies show an association between higher levels of physical activity and a reduced risk of cognitive decline and dementia. A case can be made for a causal interpretation. Future research should use objective measures of physical activity, adjust for the full range of confounders and have adequate follow-up length. Ideally, randomised controlled trials will be conducted. Regardless of any effect on cognition, physical activity should be encouraged, as it has been shown to be beneficial on numerous levels.			2014				3452
Mobile health for non-communicable diseases in Sub-Saharan Africa: a systematic review of the literature and strategic framework for research		Bloomfield, G. S., Vedanthan, R., Vasudevan, L., Kithei, A., Were, M. and Velazquez, E. J.				globalization and health	globalization and health	BACKGROUND: Mobile health (mHealth) approaches for non-communicable disease (NCD) care seem particularly applicable to sub-Saharan Africa given the penetration of mobile phones in the region. The evidence to support its implementation has not been critically reviewed. METHODS: We systematically searched PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane Central Register of Clinical Trials, a number of other databases, and grey literature for studies reported between 1992 and 2012 published in English or with an English abstract available. We extracted data using a standard form in accordance with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. RESULTS: Our search yielded 475 citations of which eleven were reviewed in full after applying exclusion criteria. Five of those studies met the inclusion criteria of using a mobile phone for non-communicable disease care in sub-Saharan Africa. Most studies lacked comparator arms, clinical endpoints, or were of short duration. mHealth for NCDs in sub-Saharan Africa appears feasible for follow-up and retention of patients, can support peer support networks, and uses a variety of mHealth modalities. Whether mHealth is associated with any adverse effect has not been systematically studied. Only a small number of mHealth strategies for NCDs have been studied in sub-Saharan Africa. CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence to support the effectiveness of mHealth for NCD care in sub-Saharan Africa. We present a framework for cataloging evidence on mHealth strategies that incorporates health system challenges and stages of NCD care. This framework can guide approaches to fill evidence gaps in this area. Systematic review registration: PROSPERO CRD42014007527.			2014				3056
Intermittent versus continuous androgen deprivation for locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic prostate cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Botrel, T. E., Clark, O., Dos Reis, R. B., Pompeo, A. C., Ferreira, U., Sadi, M. V. and Bretas, F. F.				bmc urology	bmc urology	BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in older men in the United States (USA) and Western Europe. Androgen deprivation (AD) constitutes, in most cases, the first-line of treatment for these cases. The negative impact of CAD in quality of life, secondary to the adverse events of sustained hormone deprivation, plus the costs of this therapy, motivated the intermittent treatment approach. The objective of this study is to to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of all randomized controlled trials that compared the efficacy and adverse events profile of intermittent versus continuous androgen deprivation for locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer. METHODS: Several databases were searched, including MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, and CENTRAL. The endpoints were overall survival (OS), cancer-specific survival (CSS), time to progression (TTP) and adverse events. We performed a meta-analysis (MA) of the published data. The results were expressed as Hazard Ratio (HR) or Risk Ratio (RR), with their corresponding 95% Confidence Intervals (CI 95%). RESULTS: The final analysis included 13 trials comprising 6,419 patients with hormone-sensitive prostate cancer. TTP was similar in patients who received intermittent androgen deprivation (IAD) or continuous androgen deprivation (CAD) (fixed effect: HR = 1.04; CI 95% = 0.96 to 1.14; p = 0.3). OS and CSS were also similar in patients treated with IAD or CAD (OS: fixed effect: HR = 1.02; CI 95% = 0.95 to 1.09; p = 0.56 and CSS: fixed effect: HR = 1.06; CI 95% = 0.96 to 1.18; p = 0.26). CONCLUSION: Overall survival was similar between IAD and CAD in patients with locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer. Data on CSS are weak and the benefits of IAD on this outcome remain uncertain. Impact in QoL was similar for both groups, however, sexual activity scores were higher and the incidence of hot flushes was lower in patients treated with IAD.			2014				3158
Therapeutic options for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy: a systematic review		Bright, R. J., Wilkinson, J. and Coventry, B. J.				bmc neurology	bmc neurology	BACKGROUND: Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy is a rare acquired immune-mediated progressive or relapsing disorder causing peripheral neuropathic disease of duration more than two months. Many individuals with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy fail to make a long-term recovery with current treatment regimes. The aim of this study was to prospectively review the literature to determine the effectiveness of therapies for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. METHODS: Articles published from January 1990 to December 2012 were searched for studies to treat adults with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. Peer-reviewed full-text articles published in English were included. RESULTS: Nine placebo-controlled double-blinded randomised trials were reviewed to treat subjects with chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy exhibiting various degrees of effectiveness. The most effect treatments were; three randomised controlled trials using intravenous immunoglobulin, a study comparing pulsed dexamethasone and short term prednisolone and rituximab all showed promising results and were well tolerated. CONCLUSION: IVIg and corticosteroids remain first line treatments for CIDP. Therapies using monoclonal antibodies, such as Rituximab and Natalizumab offer the most promise for treatment of Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy however they also need further research, as does the use of stem cell therapy for treating Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy. Large randomised controlled trials and better patient selection are required to address responsiveness of CIDP patients to conventional treatments to elucidate mechanisms of action and future directions for therapeutic improvement.			2014				3293
Efficacy of ketamine in improving pain after tonsillectomy in children: meta-analysis		Cho, H. K., Kim, K. W., Jeong, Y. M., Lee, H. S., Lee, Y. J. and Hwang, S. H.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The goal of this meta-analysis study was to perform a systematic review of the literature on the effects of ketamine on postoperative pain following tonsillectomy and adverse effects in children. SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Two authors independently searched three databases (MEDLINE, SCOPUS, Cochrane) from their inception of article collection to February 2014. Studies that compared preoperative ketamine administration (ketamine groups) with no treatment (control group) or opioid administration (opioid group) where the outcomes of interest were postoperative pain intensity, rescue analgesic consumption, or adverse effects (sedation, nausea and vomiting, bad dream, worsening sleep pattern, and hallucination) 0-24 hours after leaving the operation room were included in the analysis. RESULTS: The pain score reported by the physician during first 4 hours and need for analgesics during 24 hours postoperatively was significantly decreased in the ketamine group versus control group and was similar with the opioid group. In addition, there was no significant difference between ketamine and control groups for adverse effects during 24 hours postoperatively. In the subgroup analyses (systemic and local administration) regarding pain related measurements, peritonsillar infiltration of ketamine was more effective in reducing the postoperative pain severity and need for analgesics. CONCLUSION: Preoperative administration of ketamine systemically or locally could provide pain relief without side-effects in children undergoing tonsillectomy. However, considering the insufficient evaluation of efficacy of ketamine according to the administration methods and high heterogeneity in some parameters, further clinical trials with robust research methodology should be conducted to confirm the results of this study.			2014				3865
Interventions aimed at increasing the level of physical activity by including organised follow-up: a systematic review of effect		Denison, E., Vist, G. E., Underland, V. and Berg, R. C.				bmc family practice	bmc family practice	BACKGROUND: Organised follow-up is a common feature of several strategies at the primary health care level to promote health behaviour change, e.g. to increase physical activity. In Norway, municipal 'healthy living' centres run by health care personnel are established to offer counselling and organised follow-up of health behaviour change during a 12-week programme. We report the results of a systematic review commissioned by the Norwegian Directorate of Health concerning organised follow-up to improve physical activity. METHODS: We searched ten electronic databases up to June 2012, reference lists of included publications, and relevant journals. Study selection and quality risk of bias assessment were carried out independently. Data were synthesised narratively due to heterogeneity of measurements of physical activity. The GRADE approach was used to assess our confidence in the effect estimate for each outcome in each comparison. RESULTS: Fourteen randomised controlled trials from seven countries and with a total of 5,002 participants were included in the systematic review. All studies were carried out in primary care or community settings. The interventions comprised referral to supervised group physical activity (2 studies), referral to local resources with follow-up (6 studies), and self-organised physical activity with follow-up (6 studies). The narrative synthesis, comprising a total of 39 comparisons, indicated effects of self-organised physical activity with follow-up (compared to both advice and no treatment) and referral to local resources with follow-up (compared to advice) in some of the comparisons where we rated our confidence in the effect estimates as moderate. However, the results indicated no difference between intervention and control groups for the majority of comparisons. Follow-up in the studies was mainly short-term with the longest follow-up 9 months post-treatment. We rated our confidence in the effect estimates as low or very low in most comparisons, both for positive and neutral results. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this systematic review indicate considerable uncertainty concerning effects of organised follow-up during 10-14 weeks on physical activity. Major methodological problems concerning the measurement of physical activity are discussed. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Systematic review registration: PROSPERO CRD42011001598.			2014				2948
Do interventions designed to support shared decision-making reduce health inequalities? A systematic review and meta-analysis		Durand, M. A., Carpenter, L., Dolan, H., Bravo, P., Mann, M., Bunn, F. and Elwyn, G.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Increasing patient engagement in healthcare has become a health policy priority. However, there has been concern that promoting supported shared decision-making could increase health inequalities. OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of SDM interventions on disadvantaged groups and health inequalities. DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials and observational studies. DATA SOURCES: CINAHL, the Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, EMBASE, HMIC, MEDLINE, the NHS Economic Evaluation Database, Open SIGLE, PsycINFO and Web of Knowledge were searched from inception until June 2012. STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: We included all studies, without language restriction, that met the following two criteria: (1) assess the effect of shared decision-making interventions on disadvantaged groups and/or health inequalities, (2) include at least 50% of people from disadvantaged groups, except if a separate analysis was conducted for this group. RESULTS: We included 19 studies and pooled 10 in a meta-analysis. The meta-analyses showed a moderate positive effect of shared decision-making interventions on disadvantaged patients. The narrative synthesis suggested that, overall, SDM interventions increased knowledge, informed choice, participation in decision-making, decision self-efficacy, preference for collaborative decision making and reduced decisional conflict among disadvantaged patients. Further, 7 out of 19 studies compared the intervention's effect between high and low literacy groups. Overall, SDM interventions seemed to benefit disadvantaged groups (e.g. lower literacy) more than those with higher literacy, education and socioeconomic status. Interventions that were tailored to disadvantaged groups' needs appeared most effective. CONCLUSION: Results indicate that shared decision-making interventions significantly improve outcomes for disadvantaged patients. According to the narrative synthesis, SDM interventions may be more beneficial to disadvantaged groups than higher literacy/socioeconomic status patients. However, given the small sample sizes and variety in the intervention types, study design and quality, those findings should be interpreted with caution.			2014				2855
A systematic review of special events to promote breast, cervical and colorectal cancer screening in the United States		Escoffery, C., Rodgers, K. C., Kegler, M. C., Haardörfer, R., Howard, D. H., Liang, S., Pinsker, E., Roland, K. B., Allen, J. D., Ory, M. G., Bastani, R., Fernandez, M. E., Risendal, B. C., Byrd, T. L. and Coronado, G. D.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Special events are common community-based strategies for health promotion. This paper presents findings from a systematic literature review on the impact of special events to promote breast, cervical or colorectal cancer education and screening. METHODS: Articles in English that focused on special events involving breast, cervical, and/or colorectal cancer conducted in the U.S. and published between January 1990 and December 2011 were identified from seven databases: Ovid, Web of Science, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Sociological Abstract, Cochrane Libraries, and EconLit. Study inclusion and data extraction were independently validated by two researchers. RESULTS: Of the 20 articles selected for screening out of 1,409, ten articles on special events reported outcome data. Five types of special events were found: health fairs, parties, cultural events, special days, and plays. Many focused on breast cancer only, or in combination with other cancers. Reach ranged from 50-1732 participants. All special events used at least one evidence-based strategy suggested by the Community Guide to Preventive Services, such as small media, one-on-one education, and reducing structural barriers. For cancer screening as an outcome of the events, mammography screening rates ranged from 4.8% to 88%, Pap testing was 3.9%, and clinical breast exams ranged from 9.1% to 100%. For colorectal screening, FOBT ranged from 29.4% to 76%, and sigmoidoscopy was 100% at one event. Outcome measures included intentions to get screened, scheduled appointments, uptake of clinical exams, and participation in cancer screening. CONCLUSIONS: Special events found in the review varied and used evidence-based strategies. Screening data suggest that some special events can lead to increases in cancer screening, especially if they provide onsite screening services. However, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate that special events are effective in increasing cancer screening. The heterogeneity of populations served, event activities, outcome variables assessed, and the reliance on self-report to measure screening limit conclusions. This study highlights the need for further research to determine the effectiveness of special events to increase cancer screening.			2014				3098
Effect of CPAP on blood pressure in patients with OSA/hypopnea a systematic review and meta-analysis		Fava, C., Dorigoni, S., Dalle Vedove, F., Danese, E., Montagnana, M., Guidi, G. C., Narkiewicz, K. and Minuz, P.				chest	chest	BACKGROUND: CPAP is considered the therapy of choice for OSA, but the extent to which it can reduce BP is still under debate. We undertook a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to quantify the effect size of the reduction of BP by CPAP therapy compared with other passive (sham CPAP, tablets of placebo drug, conservative measures) or active (oral appliance, antihypertensive drugs) treatments. METHODS: We searched four different databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Library) with specific search terms and selection criteria. RESULTS: From 1,599 articles, we included 31 RCTs that compared CPAP with either passive or active treatment. In a random-effects meta-analysis vs passive treatment (29 RCTs, 1,820 subjects), we observed a mean±SEM net difference in systolic BP of 2.6±0.6 mm Hg and in diastolic BP of 2.0±0.4 mm Hg, favoring treatment with CPAP (P<.001). Among studies using 24-h ambulatory BP monitoring that presented data on daytime and nighttime periods, the mean difference in systolic and diastolic BP was, respectively, 2.2±0.7 and 1.9±0.6 mm Hg during daytime and 3.8±0.8 and 1.8±0.6 mm Hg during nighttime. In meta-regression analysis, a higher baseline apnea/hypopnea index was associated with a greater mean net decrease in systolic BP (beta±SE, 0.08±0.04). There was no evidence of publication bias, and heterogeneity was mild ( I2, 34%-36%). CONCLUSIONS: Therapy with CPAP significantly reduces BP in patients with OSA but with a low effect size. Patients with frequent apneic episodes may benefit the most from CPAP.			2014				3012
Factors influencing the effectiveness of multisource feedback in improving the professional practice of medical doctors: a systematic review		Ferguson, J., Wakeling, J. and Bowie, P.				bmc medical education	bmc medical education	BACKGROUND: Multisource feedback (MSF) is currently being introduced in the UK as part of a cycle of performance review for doctors. However, although it is suggested that the provision of feedback can lead to a positive change in performance and learning for medical professionals, the evidence supporting these assumptions is unclear. The aim of this review, therefore, was to identify the key factors that influence the effectiveness of multisource feedback in improving the professional practice of medical doctors. METHOD: Relevant electronic bibliographic databases were searched for studies that aimed to assess the impact of MSF on professional practice. Two reviewers independently selected and quality assessed the studies and abstracted data regarding study design, setting, MSF instrument, behaviour changes identified and influencing factors using a standard data extraction form. RESULTS: A total of 16 studies met the inclusion criteria and quality assessment criteria. While seven studies reported only a general change in professional practice, a further seven studies identified specific changes in behaviour. The main professional behaviours that were found to be influenced by the feedback were communication, both with colleagues and patients and an improvement in clinical competence/skills. The main factors found to influence the acceptance and use of MSF were the format of the feedback, specifically in terms of whether it was facilitated, or if narrative comments were included in the review, and if the feedback was from sources that the physician believed to be knowledgeable and credible. CONCLUSIONS: While there is limited evidence suggesting that MSF can influence professional performance, the quality of this evidence is variable. Further research is necessary to establish how this type of feedback actually influences behaviours and what factors have greatest influence.			2014				3553
Acupuncture and moxibustion for lateral elbow pain: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials		Gadau, M., Yeung, W. F., Liu, H., Zaslawski, C., Tan, Y. S., Wang, F. C., Bangrazi, S., Chung, K. F., Bian, Z. X. and Zhang, S. P.				bmc complementary and alternative medicine	bmc complementary and alternative medicine	BACKGROUND: Acupuncture and moxibustion have widely been used to treat lateral elbow pain (LEP). A comprehensive systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) including both English and Chinese databases was conducted to assess the efficacy of acupuncture and moxibustion in the treatment of LEP. METHODS: Revised STRICTA (2010) criteria were used to appraise the acupuncture procedures, the Cochrane risk of bias tool was used to assess the methodological quality of the studies. A total of 19 RCTs that compared acupuncture and/or moxibustion with sham acupuncture, another form of acupuncture, or conventional treatment were included. RESULTS: All studies had at least one domain rated as high risk or uncertain risk of bias in the Cochrane risk of bias tool. Results from three RCTs of moderate quality showed that acupuncture was more effective than sham acupuncture. Results from 10 RCTs of mostly low quality showed that acupuncture or moxibustion was superior or equal to conventional treatment, such as local anesthetic injection, local steroid injection, non-steroidal anti- inflammatory drugs, or ultrasound. There were six low quality RCTs that compared acupuncture and moxibustion combined with manual acupuncture alone, and all showed that acupuncture and moxibustion combined was superior to manual acupuncture alone. CONCLUSION: Moderate quality studies suggest that acupuncture is more effective than sham acupuncture. Interpretations of findings regarding acupuncture vs. conventional treatment, and acupuncture and moxibustion combined vs. manual acupuncture alone are limited by the methodological qualities of these studies. Future studies with improved methodological design are warranted to confirm the efficacy of acupuncture and moxibustion for LEP.			2014				2937
The effectiveness of financial incentives for health behaviour change: systematic review and meta-analysis		Giles, E. L., Robalino, S., McColl, E., Sniehotta, F. F. and Adams, J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Financial incentive interventions have been suggested as one method of promoting healthy behaviour change. OBJECTIVES: To conduct a systematic review of the effectiveness of financial incentive interventions for encouraging healthy behaviour change; to explore whether effects vary according to the type of behaviour incentivised, post-intervention follow-up time, or incentive value. DATA SOURCES: Searches were of relevant electronic databases, research registers, www.google.com, and the reference lists of previous reviews; and requests for information sent to relevant mailing lists. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: Controlled evaluations of the effectiveness of financial incentive interventions, compared to no intervention or usual care, to encourage healthy behaviour change, in non-clinical adult populations, living in high-income countries, were included. STUDY APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS: The Cochrane Risk of Bias tool was used to assess all included studies. Meta-analysis was used to explore the effect of financial incentive interventions within groups of similar behaviours and overall. Meta-regression was used to determine if effect varied according to post-intervention follow up time, or incentive value. RESULTS: Seventeen papers reporting on 16 studies on smoking cessation (n = 10), attendance for vaccination or screening (n = 5), and physical activity (n = 1) were included. In meta-analyses, the average effect of incentive interventions was greater than control for short-term (? six months) smoking cessation (relative risk (95% confidence intervals): 2.48 (1.77 to 3.46); long-term (>six months) smoking cessation (1.50 (1.05 to 2.14)); attendance for vaccination or screening (1.92 (1.46 to 2.53)); and for all behaviours combined (1.62 (1.38 to 1.91)). There was not convincing evidence that effects were different between different groups of behaviours. Meta-regression found some, limited, evidence that effect sizes decreased as post-intervention follow-up period and incentive value increased. However, the latter effect may be confounded by the former. CONCLUSIONS: The available evidence suggests that financial incentive interventions are more effective than usual care or no intervention for encouraging healthy behaviour change. TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42012002393.			2014				2983
Reducing hospital admissions from nursing homes: a systematic review		Graverholt, B., Forsetlund, L. and Jamtvedt, G.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	BACKGROUND: The geriatric nursing home population is vulnerable to acute and deteriorating illness due to advanced age, multiple chronic illnesses and high levels of dependency. Although the detriments of hospitalising the frail and old are widely recognised, hospital admissions from nursing homes remain common. Little is known about what alternatives exist to prevent and reduce hospital admissions from this setting. The objective of this study, therefore, is to summarise the effects of interventions to reduce acute hospitalisations from nursing homes. METHODS: A systematic literature search was performed in Cochrane Library, PubMed, MEDLINE, EMBASE and ISI Web of Science in April 2013. Studies were eligible if they had a geriatric nursing home study population and were evaluating any type of intervention aiming at reducing acute hospital admission. Systematic reviews, randomised controlled trials, quasi randomised controlled trials, controlled before-after studies and interrupted time series were eligible study designs. The process of selecting studies, assessing them, extracting data and grading the total evidence was done by two researchers individually, with any disagreement solved by a third. We made use of meta-analyses from included systematic reviews, the remaining synthesis is descriptive. Based on the type of intervention, the included studies were categorised in: 1) Interventions to structure and standardise clinical practice, 2) Geriatric specialist services and 3) Influenza vaccination. RESULTS: Five systematic reviews and five primary studies were included, evaluating a total of 11 different interventions. Fewer hospital admissions were found in four out of seven evaluations of structuring and standardising clinical practice; in both evaluations of geriatric specialist services, and in influenza vaccination of residents. The quality of the evidence for all comparisons was of low or very low quality, using the GRADE approach. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, eleven interventions to reduce hospital admissions from nursing homes were identified. None of them were tested more than once and the quality of the evidence was low for every comparison. Still, several interventions had effects on reducing hospital admissions and may represent important aspects of nursing home care to reduce hospital admissions.			2014				3304
In a maternity shared-care environment, what do we know about the paper hand-held and electronic health record: a systematic literature review		Hawley, G., Janamian, T., Jackson, C. and Wilkinson, S. A.				bmc pregnancy and childbirth	bmc pregnancy and childbirth	BACKGROUND: The paper hand-held record (PHR) has been widely used as a tool to facilitate communication between health care providers and a pregnant woman. Since its inception in the 1950s, it has been described as a successful initiative, evolving to meet the needs of communities and their providers. Increasingly, the electronic health record (EHR) has dominated the healthcare arena and the maternity general practice shared-care arrangement seems to have adopted this initiative. A systematic review was conducted to determine perspectives of the PHR and the EHR with regards to data completeness; experiences of users and integration of care between women and health care providers. METHOD: A literature search was conducted that included papers from 1985 to 2012. Studies were chosen if they fulfilled the inclusion criteria, reporting on: data completeness; experiences of users and integration of care between women and health care providers. Papers were extracted by one reviewer in consultation with two reviewers with expertise in maternity e-health and independently assessed for quality. RESULTS: A total of 43 papers were identified for the review, from an initial 6,816 potentially relevant publications. No papers were found that reported on data completeness in a maternity PHR or a maternity EHR, in a shared-care setting. Women described the PHR as important to their antenatal care and had a generally positive perception of using an EHR. Hospital clinicians reported generally positive experiences using a PHR, while both positive and negative impressions were found using an EHR. The few papers describing the use of the PHR and EHR by community clinicians were also divergent and inconclusive with regards to their experiences. In a general practice shared-care model, the PHR is a valuable tool for integration between the woman and the health care provider. While the EHR is an ideal initiative in the maternity setting, facilitating referrals and communication, there are issues of fragmentation and continued paper use. CONCLUSIONS: There was a surprising gap in knowledge surrounding data completeness on maternity PHRs or EHRs. There is also a paucity of available impressions from community clinicians using both forms of the records.			2014				3223
Ologen implant versus mitomycin C for trabeculectomy: a systematic review and meta-analysis		He, M., Wang, W., Zhang, X. and Huang, W.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the application of the Ologen implant compared to mitomycin C (MMC) on the outcome of trabeculectomy and to examine the balance of risks and benefits. METHODS: A systematic literature search (Pubmed, Embase, the Cochrane Library, and the Chinese Biomedicine Database) was performed. Randomized controlled trials comparing the Ologen implant with MMC in trabeculectomy were selected. The efficacy measures were the weighted mean differences (WMDs) for the intraocular pressure reduction (IOPR), the reduction in glaucoma medications, and the relative risks (RRs) for success rates. The tolerability measures were RRs for adverse events. The pooled effects were calculated using the random-effects model. RESULTS: Seven randomized controlled trials including 227 eyes were included in this meta-analysis. The WMDs of the IOPR comparing the Ologen group with the MMC group were -2.98 (95% Cl: -5.07 to -0.89) at one month, -1.41 (-3.72 to 0.91) at three months, -1.69 (-3.68 to 0.30) at six months, -1.94 (-3.88 to 0.01) at 12 months, and 0.65 (-2.17 to 0.47) at 24 months. There was no statistically significance except at one and 12 months after surgery. No significant difference in the reduction in glaucoma medications or complete and qualified success rates were found. The rates of adverse events also did not differ significantly between Ologen and MMC. CONCLUSIONS: The Ologen implant is comparable with MMC for trabeculectomy in IOP-lowering efficacy, reduction in the number of glaucoma medications, success rates, and tolerability. However, the results should be interpreted cautiously since relevant evidence is still limited, although it is accumulating. Further large-scale, well-designed randomized controlled trials are urgently needed.			2014				3392
Dexamethasone for Acute Asthma Exacerbations in Children: A Meta-analysis		Keeney, G. E., Gray, M. P., Morrison, A. K., Levas, M. N., Kessler, E. A., Hill, G. D., Gorelick, M. H. and Jackson, J. L.				pediatrics	pediatrics	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Dexamethasone has been proposed as an equivalent therapy to prednisone/prednisolone for acute asthma exacerbations in pediatric patients. Although multiple small trials exist, clear consensus data are lacking. This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to determine whether intramuscular or oral dexamethasone is equivalent or superior to a 5-day course of oral prednisone or prednisolone. The primary outcome of interest was return visits or hospital readmissions. METHODS: A search of PubMed (Medline) through October 19, 2013, by using the keywords dexamethasone or decadron and asthma or status asthmaticus identified potential studies. Six randomized controlled trials in the emergency department of children ?18 years of age comparing dexamethasone with prednisone/prednisolone for the treatment of acute asthma exacerbations were included. Data were abstracted by 4 authors and verified by a second author. Two reviewers evaluated study quality independently and interrater agreement was assessed. RESULTS: There was no difference in relative risk (RR) of relapse between the 2 groups at any time point (5 days RR 0.90, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.46-1.78, Q = 1.86, df = 3, I<sup>2</sup> = 0.0%, 10-14 days RR 1.14, 95% CI 0.77-1.67, Q = 0.84, df = 2, I<sup>2</sup> = 0.0%, or 30 days RR 1.20, 95% CI 0.03-56.93). Patients who received dexamethasone were less likely to experience vomiting in either the emergency department (RR 0.29, 95% CI 0.12-0.69, 0 = 3.78, df = 3, I<sup>2</sup> = 20.7%) or at home (RR 0.32, 95% CI 0.14-0.74, Q = 2.09, df = 2, I<sup>2</sup> = 4.2%). CONCLUSIONS: Practitioners should consider single or 2-dose regimens of dexamethasone as a viable alternative to a 5-day course of prednisone/prednisolone.			2014				4022
Systematic review: Efficacy and safety of medical marijuana in selected neurologic disorders: Report of the Guideline Development Subcommittee of the American Academy of Neurology		Koppel, B. S., Brust, J. C., Fife, T., Bronstein, J., Youssof, S., Gronseth, G. and Gloss, D.				neurology	neurology	OBJECTIVE: To determine the efficacy of medical marijuana in several neurologic conditions. METHODS: We performed a systematic review of medical marijuana (1948-November 2013) to address treatment of symptoms of multiple sclerosis (MS), epilepsy, and movement disorders. We graded the studies according to the American Academy of Neurology classification scheme for therapeutic articles. RESULTS: Thirty-four studies met inclusion criteria; 8 were rated as Class I. CONCLUSIONS: The following were studied in patients with MS: (1) Spasticity: oral cannabis extract (OCE) is effective, and nabiximols and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) are probably effective, for reducing patient-centered measures; it is possible both OCE and THC are effective for reducing both patient-centered and objective measures at 1 year. (2) Central pain or painful spasms (including spasticity-related pain, excluding neuropathic pain): OCE is effective; THC and nabiximols are probably effective. (3) Urinary dysfunction: nabiximols is probably effective for reducing bladder voids/day; THC and OCE are probably ineffective for reducing bladder complaints. (4) Tremor: THC and OCE are probably ineffective; nabiximols is possibly ineffective. (5) Other neurologic conditions: OCE is probably ineffective for treating levodopa-induced dyskinesias in patients with Parkinson disease. Oral cannabinoids are of unknown efficacy in non-chorea-related symptoms of Huntington disease, Tourette syndrome, cervical dystonia, and epilepsy. The risks and benefits of medical marijuana should be weighed carefully. Risk of serious adverse psychopathologic effects was nearly 1%. Comparative effectiveness of medical marijuana vs other therapies is unknown for these indications.			2014				3213
Stem cell therapy for the treatment of early stage avascular necrosis of the femoral head: a systematic review		Lau, R. L., Perruccio, A. V., Evans, H. M., Mahomed, S. R., Mahomed, N. N. and Gandhi, R.				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	BACKGROUND: Avascular necrosis (AVN) of the femoral head (FH) is believed to be caused by a multitude of etiologic factors and is associated with significant morbidity in younger populations. Eventually, the disease progresses and results in FH collapse. Thus, a focus on early disease management aimed at joint preservation by preventing or delaying progression is key. The use of stem cells (SC) for the treatment of AVN of the FH has been proposed. We undertook a systematic review of the medical literature examining the use of SC for the treatment of early stage (precollapse) AVN of the FH, in both pre-clinical and clinical studies. METHODS: Data collected included: Pre-clinical studies - model of AVN, variety and dosage of SC, histologic and imaging analyses. Clinical studies - study design, classification and etiology of AVN, SC dosage and treatment protocol, incidence of disease progression, patient reported outcomes, volume of necrotic lesion and hip survivorship. RESULTS: In pre-clinical studies, the use of SC uniformly demonstrated improvements in osteogenesis and angiogenesis, yet source of implanted SC was variable. In clinical studies, groups treated with SC showed significant improvements in patient reported outcomes; however hip survivorship was not affected. Discrepancies regarding dose of SC, AVN etiology and disease severity were present. CONCLUSIONS: Routine use of this treatment method will first require further research into dose and quality optimization as well as confirmed improvements in hip survivorship.			2014				3127
Massage therapy for fibromyalgia: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Li, Yan-hui, Wang, Feng-yun, Feng, Chun-qing, Yang, Xia-feng and Sun, Yi-hua				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Although some studies evaluated the effectiveness of massage therapy for fibromyalgia (FM), the role of massage therapy in the management of FM remained controversial. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this systematic review is to evaluate the evidence of massage therapy for patients with FM. METHODS: Electronic databases (up to June 2013) were searched to identify relevant studies. The main outcome measures were pain, anxiety, depression, and sleep disturbance. Two reviewers independently abstracted data and appraised risk of bias. The risk of bias of eligible studies was assessed based on Cochrane tools. Standardised mean difference (SMD) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated by more conservative random-effects model. And heterogeneity was assessed based on the I2 statistic. RESULTS: Nine randomized controlled trials involving 404 patients met the inclusion criteria. The meta-analyses showed that massage therapy with duration ?5 weeks significantly improved pain (SMD, 0.62; 95% CI 0.05 to 1.20; p = 0.03), anxiety (SMD, 0.44; 95% CI 0.09 to 0.78; p = 0.01), and depression (SMD, 0.49; 95% CI 0.15 to 0.84; p = 0.005) in patients with FM, but not on sleep disturbance (SMD, 0.19; 95% CI 20.38 to 0.75; p = 0.52). CONCLUSION: Massage therapy with duration ?5 weeks had beneficial immediate effects on improving pain, anxiety, and depression in patients with FM. Massage therapy should be one of the viable complementary and alternative treatments for FM. However, given fewer eligible studies in subgroup meta-analyses and no evidence on follow-up effects, large-scale randomized controlled trials with long follow-up are warrant to confirm the current findings. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)			2014				2989
Unintended effects of statins from observational studies in the general population: systematic review and meta-analysis		Macedo, A. F., Taylor, F. C., Casas, J. P., Adler, A., Prieto-Merino, D. and Ebrahim, S.				bmc medicine	bmc medicine	BACKGROUND: Efficacy of statins has been extensively studied, with much less information reported on their unintended effects. Evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on unintended effects is often insufficient to support hypotheses generated from observational studies. We aimed to systematically assess unintended effects of statins from observational studies in general populations with comparison of the findings where possible with those derived from randomized trials. METHODS: Medline (1998 to January 2012, week 3) and Embase (1998 to 2012, week 6) were searched using the standard BMJ Cohort studies filter. The search was supplemented with reference lists of all identified studies and contact with experts in the field. We included prospective studies with a sample size larger than 1,000 participants, case control (of any size) and routine health service linkage studies of over at least one year duration. Studies in subgroups of patients or follow-up of patient case series were excluded, as well as hospital-based cohort studies. RESULTS: Ninety studies were identified, reporting on 48 different unintended effects. Statins were associated with lower risks of dementia and cognitive impairment, venous thrombo-embolism, fractures and pneumonia, but these findings were attenuated in analyses restricted to higher quality studies (respectively: OR 0.74 (95% CI 0.62 to 0.87); OR 0.92 (95% CI 0.81 to 1.03); OR 0.97 (95% CI 0.88 to 1.05); OR 0.92 (95% CI 0.83 to 1.02)); and marked heterogeneity of effects across studies remained. Statin use was not related to any increased risk of depression, common eye diseases, renal disorders or arthritis. There was evidence of an increased risk of myopathy, raised liver enzymes and diabetes (respectively: OR 2.63 (95% CI 1.50 to 4.61); OR 1.54 (95% CI 1.47 to 1.62); OR 1.31 (95% CI 0.99 to 1.73)). CONCLUSIONS: Our systematic review and meta-analyses indicate that high quality observational data can provide relevant evidence on unintended effects of statins to add to the evidence from RCTs. The absolute excess risk of the observed harmful unintended effects of statins is very small compared to the beneficial effects of statins on major cardiovascular events.			2014				3045
Systematic review and meta-analysis of the duration of clinical effect of onabotulinumtoxinA in cervical dystonia		Marsh, W. A., Monroe, D. M., Brin, M. F. and Gallagher, C. J.				bmc neurology	bmc neurology	BACKGROUND: Botulinum toxins are considered first-line therapy for treatment of cervical dystonia (CD) and must be injected on a repeat basis. Understanding the duration of clinical benefit of botulinum toxins and its impact on health care utilization are thus important in the contemporary environment. However, there is currently no overall consensus on the duration of effect of onabotulinumtoxinA in the treatment of CD. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to identify the duration of effect of onabotulinumtoxinA in CD and investigate factors that may influence it. METHODS: A systematic literature search identified prospective or retrospective studies reporting duration of effect of onabotulinumtoxinA for the treatment of CD. Inclusion criteria included peer-reviewed, non-review, English-language articles published between January 1980 and January 2013. A formal meta-analysis using Comprehensive Meta-Analysis Version 2 was conducted to identify the duration of effect of onabotulinumtoxinA in the treatment of CD; both fixed and random effects models were performed. Subgroup analyses were performed to identify factors that influenced the duration of effect of onabotulinumtoxinA. RESULTS: A total of 18 studies (including >1,900 patients) met the inclusion criteria and were used for the meta-analysis. The mean duration of effect of onabotulinumtoxinA in CD was found to be 93.2 days (95% CI 91.8-94.6 days) for the fixed effects model and 95.2 days (95% CI 88.9-101.4 days) for the random effects model. A meta-regression found that dose of onabotulinumtoxinA and country of origin influenced the duration of effect of onabotulinumtoxinA, whereas quality score of the article and study type did not. In particular, doses ?180 Units were associated with longer durations of effect than doses <180 Units (107-109 days vs. 86-88 days, respectively; p?<?0.01). Limitations included pooling studies that used discrete definitions of duration and had different designs and study quality. CONCLUSIONS: Based on the published literature, the mean duration of effect of onabotulinumtoxinA in CD was 93-95 days (13.2-13.5 weeks). This suggests that, in general, patients with CD treated with onabotulinumtoxinA should require ~4 treatments per year.			2014				2950
Substitution of physicians by nurses in primary care: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Martínez-González, N. A., Djalali, S., Tandjung, R., Huber-Geismann, F., Markun, S., Wensing, M. and Rosemann, T.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	BACKGROUND: In many countries, substitution of physicians by nurses has become common due to the shortage of physicians and the need for high-quality, affordable care, especially for chronic and multi-morbid patients. We examined the evidence on the clinical effectiveness and care costs of physician-nurse substitution in primary care. METHODS: We systematically searched OVID Medline and Embase, The Cochrane Library and CINAHL, up to August 2012; selected and critically appraised published randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared nurse-led care with care by primary care physicians on patient satisfaction, Quality of Life (QoL), hospital admission, mortality and costs of healthcare. We assessed the individual study risk of bias, calculated the study-specific and pooled relative risks (RR) or standardised mean differences (SMD); and performed fixed-effects meta-analyses. RESULTS: 24 RCTs (38,974 participants) and 2 economic studies met the inclusion criteria. Pooled analyses showed higher overall scores of patient satisfaction with nurse-led care (SMD 0.18, 95% CI 0.13 to 0.23), in RCTs of single contact or urgent care, short (less than 6 months) follow-up episodes and in small trials (N???200). Nurse-led care was effective at reducing the overall risk of hospital admission (RR 0.76, 95% CI 0.64 to 0.91), mortality (RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.84 to 0.96), in RCTs of on-going or non-urgent care, longer (at least 12 months) follow-up episodes and in larger (N?>?200) RCTs. Higher quality RCTs (with better allocation concealment and less attrition) showed higher rates of hospital admissions and mortality with nurse-led care albeit less or not significant. The results seemed more consistent across nurse practitioners than with registered or licensed nurses. The effects of nurse-led care on QoL and costs were difficult to interpret due to heterogeneous outcome reporting, valuation of resources and the small number of studies. CONCLUSIONS: The available evidence continues to be limited by the quality of the research considered. Nurse-led care seems to have a positive effect on patient satisfaction, hospital admission and mortality. This important finding should be confirmed and the determinants of this effect should be assessed in further, larger and more methodically rigorous research.			2014				3500
Effects of physician-nurse substitution on clinical parameters: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Martínez-González, N. A., Tandjung, R., Djalali, S., Huber-Geismann, F., Markun, S. and Rosemann, T.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Physicians' shortage in many countries and demands of high-quality and affordable care make physician-nurse substitution an appealing workforce strategy. The objective of this study is to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) assessing the impact of physician-nurse substitution in primary care on clinical parameters. METHODS: We systematically searched OVID Medline and Embase, The Cochrane Library and CINAHL, up to August 2012; selected peer-reviewed RCTs comparing physician-led care with nurse-led care on changes in clinical parameters. Study selection and data extraction were performed in duplicate by independent reviewers. We assessed the individual study risk of bias; calculated the study-specific and pooled relative risks (RR) or weighted mean differences (WMD); and performed fixed-effects meta-analyses. RESULTS: 11 RCTs (N?=?30,247) were included; most were from Europe, generally small with higher risk of bias. In all studies, nurses provided care for complex conditions including HIV, hypertension, heart failure, cerebrovascular diseases, diabetes, asthma, Parkinson's disease and incontinence. Meta-analyses showed greater reductions in systolic blood pressure (SBP) in favour of nurse-led care (WMD -4.27 mmHg, 95% CI -6.31 to -2.23) but no statistically significant differences between groups in the reduction of diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (WMD -1.48 mmHg, 95%CI -3.05 to -0.09), total cholesterol (TC) (WMD -0.08 mmol/l, 95%CI -0.22 to 0.07) or glycosylated haemoglobin (WMD 0.12%HbAc1, 95%CI -0.13 to 0.37). Of other 32 clinical parameters identified, less than a fifth favoured nurse-led care while 25 showed no significant differences between groups. LIMITATIONS: disease-specific interventions from a small selection of healthcare systems, insufficient quantity and quality of studies, many different parameters. CONCLUSIONS: trained nurses appeared to be better than physicians at lowering SBP but similar at lowering DBP, TC or HbA1c. There is insufficient evidence that nurse-led care leads to better outcomes of other clinical parameters than physician-led care.			2014				2986
Survival benefits of metformin for colorectal cancer patients with diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Mei, Z. B., Zhang, Z. J., Liu, C. Y., Liu, Y., Cui, A., Liang, Z. L., Wang, G. H. and Cui, L.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Several studies suggest that metformin has the potential effect of reducing cancer risk. However, its survival benefit in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) and diabetes is unknown. The aim of our study is to address the effect of metformin on outcomes for CRC based on a systematic review and meta-analysis. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We searched EMBASE and MEDLINE databases from inception through August, 2013, using search terms related to metformin, diabetes, colorectal cancer, and prognostic outcome. The outcome measures were hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% CIs comparing CRC survival in diabetic patients using metformin and without using metformin. The primary end points were overall survival (OS) and CRC specific survival (CS). A total of six cohort studies including 2,461 patients met full eligibility criteria. The pooled HR favoring metformin users was 0.56 for OS (95% CI, 0.41 to 0.77) and 0.66 for CRC-specific survival (95% CI, 0.50 to 0.87). Thus metformin therapy reduced the risk of all cause of death by 44% and the risk of CRC specific death by 34% in CRC patients compared to those in non-users. However, evidence of heterogeneity and possible publication bias was noted for OS. CONCLUSIONS: Patients with CRC and diabetes treated with metformin appear to have an improved survival outcome. Prospective study should be warranted to examine the association between metformin exposure intensity as well as some other confounding variables and survival outcome in diabetic CRC patients.			2014				2911
Staff experiences within the implementation of computer-based nursing records in residential aged care facilities: a systematic review and synthesis of qualitative research		Meißner, A. and Schnepp, W.				bmc medical informatics and decision making	bmc medical informatics and decision making	BACKGROUND: Since the introduction of electronic nursing documentation systems, its implementation in recent years has increased rapidly in Germany. The objectives of such systems are to save time, to improve information handling and to improve quality. To integrate IT in the daily working processes, the employee is the pivotal element. Therefore it is important to understand nurses' experience with IT implementation. At present the literature shows a lack of understanding exploring staff experiences within the implementation process. METHODS: A systematic review and meta-ethnographic synthesis of primary studies using qualitative methods was conducted in PubMed, CINAHL, and Cochrane. It adheres to the principles of the PRISMA statement. The studies were original, peer-reviewed articles from 2000 to 2013, focusing on computer-based nursing documentation in Residential Aged Care Facilities. RESULTS: The use of IT requires a different form of information processing. Some experience this new form of information processing as a benefit while others do not. The latter find it more difficult to enter data and this result in poor clinical documentation. Improvement in the quality of residents' records leads to an overall improvement in the quality of care. However, if the quality of those records is poor, some residents do not receive the necessary care. Furthermore, the length of time necessary to complete the documentation is a prominent theme within that process. Those who are more efficient with the electronic documentation demonstrate improved time management. For those who are less efficient with electronic documentation the information processing is perceived as time consuming. Normally, it is possible to experience benefits when using IT, but this depends on either promoting or hindering factors, e.g. ease of use and ability to use it, equipment availability and technical functionality, as well as attitude. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, the findings showed that members of staff experience IT as a benefit when it simplifies their daily working routines and as a burden when it complicates their working processes. Whether IT complicates or simplifies their routines depends on influencing factors. The line between benefit and burden is semipermeable. The experiences differ according to duties and responsibilities.			2014				3253
A systematic review of types of healthy eating interventions in preschools		Mikkelsen, M. V., Husby, S., Skov, L. R. and Perez-Cueto, F. J.				nutrition journal	nutrition journal	BACKGROUND: With the worldwide levels of obesity new venues for promotion of healthy eating habits are necessary. Considering children's eating habits are founded during their preschool years early educational establishments are a promising place for making health promoting interventions. METHODS: This systematic review evaluates different types of healthy eating interventions attempting to prevent obesity among 3 to 6 year-olds in preschools, kindergartens and day care facilities. Studies that included single interventions, educational interventions and/or multicomponent interventions were eligible for review. Included studies also had to have conducted both baseline and follow-up measurements.A systematic search of the databases Scopus, Web of Science, CINAHL and PubMed was conducted to identify articles that met the inclusion criteria. The bibliographies of identified articles were also searched for relevant articles. RESULTS: The review identified 4186 articles, of which 26 studies met the inclusion criteria. Fifteen of the interventions took place in preschools, 10 in kindergartens and 1 in another facility where children were cared for by individuals other than their parents. Seventeen of the 26 included studies were located in North America, 1 in South America, 5 in Asia, and 3 in a European context.Healthy eating interventions in day care facilities increased fruit and vegetable consumption and nutrition related knowledge among the target groups. Only 2 studies reported a significant decrease in body mass index. CONCLUSIONS: This review highlights the scarcity of properly designed healthy eating interventions using clear indicators and verifiable outcomes. The potential of preschools as a potential setting for influencing children's food choice at an early age should be more widely recognised and utilised.			2014				2744
Systematic review and meta-analysis of L1-VLP-based human papillomavirus vaccine efficacy against anogenital pre-cancer in women with evidence of prior HPV exposure		Miltz, A., Price, H., Shahmanesh, M., Copas, A. and Gilson, R.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: It is unclear whether L1-VLP-based human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines are efficacious in reducing the likelihood of anogenital pre-cancer in women with evidence of prior vaccine-type HPV exposure. This study aims to determine whether the combined results of the vaccine trials published to date provide evidence of efficacy compared with control (hepatitis A vaccine/placebo). METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted. Randomized-controlled trials (RCTs) were identified from MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, PubMed, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and references of identified studies. The bivalent vaccine containing HPV-16 and 18 VLPs from GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (Rixenstart, Belgium), the quadrivalent vaccine containing HPV-6, 11, 16, and 18 VLPs from Merck & Co., Inc., (Whitehouse Station, NJ USA), and the HPV-16 monovalent vaccine from Merck Research Laboratories (West Point, PA USA) were evaluated. FINDINGS: Three RCT reports and two post-trial cohort studies were eligible, comprising data from 13,482 women who were included in the vaccine studies but had evidence of HPV infection at study entry. Data on efficacy was synthesized using the Mantel-Haenszel weighted fixed-effect approach, or where there was heterogeneity between studies, the DerSimonian and Laird weighted random-effect approach. The mean odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for the association between Cervarix, Gardasil and HPV-16 monovalent vaccine and HPV-associated cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade 3 or worse was 0·90 (95% CI: 0·56, 1·44). For the association between Gardasil and HPV-associated vulval/vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia grades 2-3, the overall OR and 95% CI was 2.25 (95% CI: 0·78, 6.50). Sample size and follow-up were limited. CONCLUSIONS: There was no evidence that HPV vaccines are effective in preventing vaccine-type HPV associated pre-cancer in women with evidence of prior HPV exposure. Small effects of vaccination however cannot be excluded and a longer-term benefit in preventing re-infection remains possible.			2014				3231
Vaccine against tuberculosis: what's new?		Montagnani, C., Chiappini, E., Galli, L. and de Martino, M.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: one of the World Health Organization Millennium Development Goal is to reduce tuberculosis incidence by 2015. However, more of 8.5 million tuberculosis cases have been reported in 2011, with an increase of multidrug-resistant strains. Therefore, the World Health Organization target cannot be reach without the help of a vaccine able to limit the spread of tuberculosis. Nowadays, bacille Calmette-Guérin is the only vaccine available against tuberculosis. It prevents against meningeal and disseminated tuberculosis in children, but its effectiveness against pulmonary form in adolescents and adults is argued. METHOD: a systematic review was performed by searches of Pubmed, references of the relevant articles and Aeras and ClinicalTrial.gov websites. RESULTS: 100 articles were included in this review. Three viral vectored booster vaccines, five protein adjuvant booster vaccines, two priming vaccines and two therapeutic vaccines have been analyzed. CONCLUSIONS: Several vaccines are in the pipeline, but further studies on basic research, clinical trial and mass vaccination campaigns are needed to achieve the TB eradication target by 2050.			2014				3784
Direct Access Compared With Referred Physical Therapy Episodes of Care: A Systematic Review		Ojha, H. A., Snyder, R. S. and Davenport, T. E.				physical therapy	physical therapy	Background. Evidence suggests that physical therapy through direct access may help decrease costs and improve patient outcomes compared with physical therapy by physician referral. Purpose. The purpose of this study was to conduct a systematic review of the literature on patients with musculoskeletal injuries and compare health care costs and patient outcomes in episodes of physical therapy by direct access compared with referred physical therapy. Data Sources. Ovid MEDLINE, CINAHL (EBSCO), Web of Science, and PEDro were searched using terms related to physical therapy and direct access. Included articles were hand searched for additional references. Study Selection. Included studies compared data from physical therapy by direct access with physical therapy by physician referral, studying cost, outcomes, or harm. The studies were appraised using the Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine (CEBM) levels of evidence criteria and assigned a methodological score. Data Extraction. Of the l,501 articles that were screened, 8 articles at levels 3 to 4 on the CEBM scale were included. There were statistically significant and clinically meaningful findings across studies that satisfaction and outcomes were superior, and numbers of physical therapy visits, imaging ordered, medications prescribed, and additional non-physical therapy appointments were less in cohorts receiving physical therapy by direct access compared with referred episodes of care. There was no evidence for harm. Data Synthesis. There is evidence across level 3 and 4 studies (grade B to C CEBM level of recommendation) that physical therapy by direct access compared with referred episodes of care is associated with improved patient outcomes and decreased costs. Limitations. Primary limitations were lack of group randomization, potential for selection bias, and limited generalizability. Conclusions. Physical therapy by way of direct access may contain health care costs and promote high-quality health care. Third-party payers should consider paying for physical therapy by direct access to decrease health care costs and incentivize optimal patient outcomes.			2014				3022
A systematic review and mixed-treatment comparison of dapagliflozin with existing anti-diabetes treatments for those with type 2 diabetes mellitus inadequately controlled by sulfonylurea monotherapy		Orme, M., Fenici, P., Lomon, I. D., Wygant, G., Townsend, R. and Roudaut, M.				diabetology & metabolic syndrome	diabetology & metabolic syndrome	BACKGROUND: To compare the first-in-class sodium glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitor, dapagliflozin, with existing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) treatment options available within the European Union (EU) for add-on therapy to sulfonylureas (SUs). METHODS: A systematic review was conducted to identify randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in T2DM patients inadequately controlled by SU monotherapy. Direct meta-analysis, Bucher indirect comparisons and Bayesian network meta-analysis (NMA) were conducted on studies meeting predefined inclusion criteria. Sufficient data were available to assess three clinical endpoints at 24 (+/- 6) weeks follow-up: mean change in HbA1c from baseline, mean change in weight from baseline, and the proportion of patients experiencing at least one episode of hypoglycaemia. The effect of confounding baseline factors was explored through covariate analyses. RESULTS: The search identified 1,901 unique citations, with 1,870 excluded based on title/abstract. From reviewing full-texts of the remaining 31 articles, 5 studies were considered eligible for analysis. All studies were comparable in terms of baseline characteristics, including: HbA1c, age and body mass index (BMI). In addition to dapagliflozin, sufficient data for meta-analysis was available for three dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors and one glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) analogue. Based on fixed-effect NMA, all treatment classes resulted in statistically significant decreases in HbA1c at follow-up compared to placebo. Dapagliflozin treatment resulted in significantly decreased weight at follow-up compared to placebo (-1.54 kg; 95% CrI -2.16, -0.92), in contrast to treatment with GLP-1 analogues (-0.65 kg; 95% CrI -1.37, 0.07) and DPP-4 inhibitors (0.57 kg; 95% CrI 0.09, 1.06). The odds of hypoglycaemia were similar to placebo for dapagliflozin and DPP-4 inhibitor add-on treatment, but significantly greater than placebo for GLP-1 analogue add-on treatment (10.89; 95% CrI 4.24, 38.28). Assessment of NMA model heterogeneity was hindered by the small size of the network. CONCLUSIONS: Dapagliflozin, DPP-4 inhibitors and GLP-1 analogues, in combination with SU, all provided better short-term glycaemic control compared to SU monotherapy. Dapagliflozin was the only add-on therapy that had both a favourable weight and hypoglycaemia profile compared to the other classes of treatment evaluated.			2014				3252
Are depression, anxiety and poor mental health risk factors for knee pain? A systematic review		Phyomaung, P. P., Dubowitz, J., Cicuttini, F. M., Fernando, S., Wluka, A. E., Raaijmaakers, P., Wang, Y. and Urquhart, D. M.				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	BACKGROUND: While it is recognized that psychosocial factors are important in the development and progression of musculoskeletal pain and disability, no systematic review has specifically focused on examining the relationship between psychosocial factors and knee pain. We aimed to systematically review the evidence to determine whether psychosocial factors, specifically depression, anxiety and poor mental health, are risk factors for knee pain. METHODS: Electronic searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE and PsycINFO were performed to identify relevant studies published up to August 2012 using MESH terms and keywords. We included studies that met a set of predefined criteria and two independent reviewers assessed the methodological quality of the selected studies. Due to the heterogeneity of the studies, a best evidence synthesis was performed. RESULTS: Sixteen studies were included in the review, of which 9 were considered high quality. The study populations were heterogeneous in terms of diagnosis of knee pain. We found a strong level of evidence for a relationship between depression and knee pain, limited evidence for no relationship between anxiety and knee pain, and minimal evidence for no relationship between poor mental health and knee pain. CONCLUSIONS: Despite the heterogeneity of the included studies, these data show that depression plays a significant role in knee pain, and that a biopsychosocial approach to the management of this condition is integral to optimising outcomes for knee pain.			2014				2774
The association between malaria and iron status or supplementation in pregnancy: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Sangaré, L., van Eijk, A. M., Ter Kuile, F. O., Walson, J. and Stergachis, A.				plos one	plos one	INTRODUCTION: Malaria prevention and iron supplementation are associated with improved maternal and infant outcomes. However, evidence from studies in children suggests iron may adversely modify the risk of malaria. We reviewed the evidence in pregnancy of the association between malaria and markers of iron status, iron supplementation or parenteral treatment. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, the Global Health Library, and the Malaria in Pregnancy library to identify studies that investigated the association between iron status, iron treatment or supplementation during pregnancy and malaria. Thirty one studies contributed to the analysis; 3 experimental and 28 observational studies. Iron supplementation was not associated with an increased risk of P. falciparum malaria during pregnancy or delivery in Africa (summary Relative Risk?=?0.89, 95% Confidence Interval (CI) 0.66-1.20, I(2)?=?78.8%, 5 studies). One study in Asia reported an increased risk of P. vivax within 30 days of iron supplementation (e.g. adjusted Hazard Ratio?=?1.75, 95% CI 1.14-2.70 for 1-15 days), but not after 60 days. Iron deficiency (based on ferritin and C-reactive protein) was associated with lower odds for malaria infection (summary Odds Ratio?=?0.35, 0.24-0.51, I(2)?=?59.2%, 5 studies). With the exception of the acute phase protein ferritin, biomarkers of iron deficiency were generally not associated with malaria infection. CONCLUSIONS: Iron supplementation was associated with a temporal increase in P vivax, but not with an increased risk of P. falciparum; however, data are insufficient to rule out the potential for an increased risk of P. falciparum. Iron deficiency was associated with a decreased malaria risk in pregnancy only when measured with ferritin. Until there is more evidence, it is prudent to provide iron in combination with malaria prevention during pregnancy.			2014				3336
Global methylmercury exposure from seafood consumption and risk of developmental neurotoxicity: a systematic review		Sheehan, M. C., Burke, T. A., Navas-Acien, A., Breysse, P. N., McGready, J. and Fox, M. A.				bulletin of the world health organization	bulletin of the world health organization	Objective To examine biomarkers of methylmercury (MeHg) intake in women and infants from seafood-consuming populations globally and characterize the comparative risk of fetal developmental neurotoxicity. Methods A search was conducted of the published literature reporting total mercury (Hg) in hair and blood in women and infants. These biomarkers are validated proxy measures of MeHg, a neurotoxin found primarily in seafood. Average and high-end biomarkers were extracted, stratified by seafood consumption context, and pooled by category. Medians for average and high-end pooled distributions were compared with the reference level established by a joint expert committee of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO). Findings Selection criteria were met by 164 studies of women and infants from 43 countries. Pooled average biomarkers suggest an intake of MeHg several times over the FAO/WHO reference in fish-consuming riparians living near small-scale gold mining and well over the reference in consumers of marine mammals in Arctic regions. In coastal regions of south-eastern Asia, the western Pacific and the Mediterranean, average biomarkers approach the reference. Although the two former groups have a higher risk of neurotoxicity than the latter, coastal regions are home to the largest number at risk. High-end biomarkers across all categories indicate MeHg intake is in excess of the reference value. Conclusion There is a need for policies to reduce Hg exposure among women and infants and for surveillance in high-risk populations, the majority of which live in low-and middle-income countries.			2014				3444
What is the evidence for physical therapy poststroke? A systematic review and meta-analysis		Veerbeek, J. M., Wegen, E. van, Peppen, R. van, van der Wees, P. J., Hendriks, E., Rietberg, M. and Kwakkel, G.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Physical therapy (PT) is one of the key disciplines in interdisciplinary stroke rehabilitation. The aim of this systematic review was to provide an update of the evidence for stroke rehabilitation interventions in the domain of PT. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) regarding PT in stroke rehabilitation were retrieved through a systematic search. Outcomes were classified according to the ICF. RCTs with a low risk of bias were quantitatively analyzed. Differences between phases poststroke were explored in subgroup analyses. A best evidence synthesis was performed for neurological treatment approaches. The search yielded 467 RCTs (N = 25373; median PEDro score 6 [IQR 5-7]), identifying 53 interventions. No adverse events were reported. Strong evidence was found for significant positive effects of 13 interventions related to gait, 11 interventions related to arm-hand activities, 1 intervention for ADL, and 3 interventions for physical fitness. Summary Effect Sizes (SESs) ranged from 0.17 (95%CI 0.03-0.70; I(2)?= 0%) for therapeutic positioning of the paretic arm to 2.47 (95%CI 0.84-4.11; I(2)?= 77%) for training of sitting balance. There is strong evidence that a higher dose of practice is better, with SESs ranging from 0.21 (95%CI 0.02-0.39; I(2)?= 6%) for motor function of the paretic arm to 0.61 (95%CI 0.41-0.82; I(2)?= 41%) for muscle strength of the paretic leg. Subgroup analyses yielded significant differences with respect to timing poststroke for 10 interventions. Neurological treatment approaches to training of body functions and activities showed equal or unfavorable effects when compared to other training interventions. Main limitations of the present review are not using individual patient data for meta-analyses and absence of correction for multiple testing. CONCLUSIONS: There is strong evidence for PT interventions favoring intensive high repetitive task-oriented and task-specific training in all phases poststroke. Effects are mostly restricted to the actually trained functions and activities. Suggestions for prioritizing PT stroke research are given.			2014				2800
Interspinous spacer versus traditional decompressive surgery for lumbar spinal stenosis: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Wu, A. M., Zhou, Y., Li, Q. L., Wu, X. L., Jin, Y. L., Luo, P., Chi, Y. L. and Wang, X. Y.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Dynamic interspinous spacers, such as X-stop, Coflex, DIAM, and Aperius, are widely used for the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis. However, controversy remains as to whether dynamic interspinous spacer use is superior to traditional decompressive surgery. METHODS: Medline, Embase, Cochrane Library, and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register were searched during August 2013. A track search was performed on February 27, 2014. Study was included in this review if it was: (1) a randomized controlled trial (RCT) or non-randomized prospective comparison study, (2) comparing the clinical outcomes for interspinous spacer use versus traditional decompressive surgery, (3) in a minimum of 30 patients, (4) with a follow-up duration of at least 12 months. RESULTS: Two RCTs and three non-randomized prospective studies were included, with 204 patients in the interspinous spacer (IS) group and 217 patients in the traditional decompressive surgery (TDS) group. Pooled analysis showed no significant difference between the IS and TDS groups for low back pain (WMD: 1.2; 95% CI: -10.12, 12.53; P?=?0.03; I2?=?66%), leg pain (WMD: 7.12; 95% CI: -3.88, 18.12; P?=?0.02; I2?=?70%), ODI (WMD: 6.88; 95% CI: -14.92, 28.68; P?=?0.03; I2?=?79%), RDQ (WMD: -1.30, 95% CI: -3.07, 0.47; P?=?0.00; I2?=?0%), or complications (RR: 1.39; 95% CI: 0.61, 3.14; P?=?0.23; I2?=?28%). The TDS group had a significantly lower incidence of reoperation (RR: 3.34; 95% CI: 1.77, 6.31; P?=?0.60; I2?=?0%). CONCLUSION: Although patients may obtain some benefits from interspinous spacers implanted through a minimally invasive technique, interspinous spacer use is associated with a higher incidence of reoperation and higher cost. The indications, risks, and benefits of using an interspinous process device should be carefully considered before surgery.			2014				3378
Does dexmedetomidine as a neuraxial adjuvant facilitate better anesthesia and analgesia? A systematic review and meta-analysis		Wu, H. H., Wang, H. T., Jin, J. J., Cui, G. B., Zhou, K. C., Chen, Y., Chen, G. Z., Dong, Y. L. and Wang, W.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Neuraxial application of dexmedetomidine (DEX) as adjuvant analgesic has been invetigated in some randomized controlled trials (RCTs) but not been approved because of the inconsistency of efficacy and safety in these RCTs. We performed this meta-analysis to access the efficacy and safety of neuraxial DEX as local anaesthetic (LA) adjuvant. METHODS: We searched PubMed, PsycINFO, Scopus, EMBASE, and CENTRAL databases from inception to June 2013 for RCTs that investigated the analgesia efficacy and safety for neuraxial application DEX as LA adjuvant. Effects were summarized using standardized mean differences (SMDs), weighed mean differences (WMDs) or odds ratio (OR) with suitable effect model. The primary outcomes were postoperative pain intensity and analgesic duration, bradycardia and hypotension. RESULTS: Sixteen RCTs involving 1092 participants were included. Neuraxial DEX significantly decreased postoperative pain intensity (SMD, -1.29; 95% confidence interval (CI), -1.70 to -0.89; P<0.00001), prolonged analgesic duration (WMD, 6.93 hours; 95% CI, 5.23 to 8.62; P<0.00001) and increased the risk of bradycardia (OR, 2.68; 95% CI, 1.18 to 6.10; P?=?0.02). No evidence showed that neuraxial DEX increased the risk of other adverse events, such as hypotension (OR, 1.54; 95% CI, 0.83 to 2.85; P?=?0.17). Additionally, neuraxial DEX was associated with beneficial alterations in postoperative sedation scores and number of analgesic requirements, sensory and motor block characteristics, and intro-operative hemodynamics. CONCLUSION: Neuraxial DEX is a favorable LA adjuvant with better and longer analgesia. The greatest concern is bradycardia. Further large sample trials with strict design and focusing on long-term outcomes are needed.			2014				3389
Incidence and risk of cardiotoxicity associated with bortezomib in the treatment of cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Xiao, Y., Yin, J., Wei, J. and Shang, Z.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to clarify the incidence and risk of cardiotoxicity associated with bortezomib in cancer patients. METHODS: Databases from PubMed, Web of Science and abstracts presented at ASCO meeting up to July 31, 2013 were searched to identify relevant studies. Eligible studies included prospective phase II and III trials evaluating bortezomib in cancer patients with adequate data on cardiotoxicity. Statistical analyses were conducted to calculate the summary incidence, odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) by using either random effects or fixed effect models according to the heterogeneity of included studies. RESULTS: A total of 5718 patients with a variety of malignancies from 25 clinical trials were included in our analysis. The incidence of all-grade and high-grade cardiotoxicity associated with bortezomib was 3.8% (95%CI: 2.6-5.6%) and 2.3% (1.6-3.5%), with a mortality of 3.0% (1.4-6.5%). Patients treated with bortezomib did not significantly increase the risk of all-grade (OR 1.15, 95%CI: 0.82-1.62, p=0.41) and high-grade (OR 1.13, 95%CI: 0.58-2.24, p=0.72) cardiotoxicity compared with patients treated with control medication. Sub-group analysis showed that the incidence of cardiotoxicity varied with tumor types, treatment regimens and phases of trials. No evidence of publication bias was observed. CONCLUSIONS: The use of bortezomib does not significantly increase the risk of cardiotoxicity compared to control patients. Further studies are recommended to investigate this association and risk differences among different tumor types, treatment regimens and phases of trials.			2014				3150
Sling exercise for chronic low back pain: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Yue, Y. S., Wang, X. D., Xie, B., Li, Z. H., Chen, B. L., Wang, X. Q. and Zhu, Y.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Trials on sling exercise (SE), commonly performed to manage chronic low back pain (LBP), yield conflicting results. This study aimed to review the effects of SE on chronic LBP. METHODS: The randomized controlled trials comparing SE with other treatments or no treatment, published up to August 2013, were identified by electronic searches. Primary outcomes were pain, function, and return to work. The weighted mean difference (WMD) and 95% confidence interval (CI) were calculated, using a random-effects model. RESULTS: Risk of bias was rated as high in 9 included trials, where some important quality components such as blinding were absent and sample sizes were generally small. We found no clinically relevant differences in pain or function between SE and other forms of exercise, traditional Chinese medical therapy, or in addition to acupuncture. Based on two trials, SE was more effective than thermomagnetic therapy at reducing pain (short-term: WMD -13.90, 95% CI -22.19 to -5.62; long-term: WMD -26.20, 95% CI -31.32 to -21.08) and improving function (short-term: WMD -10.54, 95% CI -14.32 to -6.75; long-term: WMD -25.75, 95% CI -30.79 to -20.71). In one trial we found statistically significant differences between SE and physical agents combined with drug therapy (meloxicam combined with eperisone hydrochloride) but of borderline clinical relevance for pain (short-term: WMD -15.00, 95% CI -19.64 to -10.36) and function (short-term: WMD -10.00; 95% CI -13.70 to -6.30). There was substantial heterogeneity among the two trials comparing SE and thermomagnetic therapy; both these trials and the trial comparing SE with physical agents combined with drug therapy had serious methodological limitations. INTERPRETATION: Based on limited evidence from 2 trials, SE was more effective for LBP than thermomagnetic therapy. Clinically relevant differences in effects between SE and other forms of exercise, physical agents combined with drug therapy, traditional Chinese medical therapy, or in addition to acupuncture could not be found. More high-quality randomized trials on the topic are warranted.			2014				3380
Effect of statins on cardiovascular events in patients with mild to moderate chronic kidney disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials		Zhang, X., Xiang, C., Zhou, Y. H., Jiang, A., Qin, Y. Y. and He, J.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: Statins are commonly used to lower total cholesterol levels in the general population to prevent cardiovascular events. However, the effects of statins in patients with chronic kidney disease remain unclear. We therefore performed a meta-analysis to assess the effects of statin therapy on cardiovascular outcomes in patients with mild to moderate chronic kidney disease. METHODS: We systematically searched PubMed, EmBase, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, proceedings of major meetings, and reference lists of articles for relevant literature. Only randomized clinical trials were included. Outcomes analysed included cardiovascular disease, total mortality, myocardial infarction, stroke, cardiovascular death, and possible drug-related adverse events. Subgroup analyses were also performed based on the population characteristics and clinical indexes. RESULTS: Twelve trials met our inclusion criteria. Overall, statin therapy resulted in a 24% reduction in the risk of cardiovascular disease (RR = 0.76,95% confidence interval [CI], 0.72- 0.80), a 21% reduction in the risk of total mortality (RR = 0.79,95% CI, 0.72-0.86), a 34% reduction in the risk of myocardial infarction (RR = 0.66,95% CI, 0.52-0.83), a 30% reduction in the risk of stroke (RR = 0.70,95% CI, 0.57-0.85), and a 17% reduction in the risk of cardiovascular mortality (RR = 0.83,95% CI, 0.73- 0.93). No statistically significant drug-related adverse events were noted. Subgroup analysis indicated that some important factors such as baseline creatinine level ?1.5 mg/dL, baseline glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and cardiovascular disease history could affect cardiovascular outcomes. CONCLUSION: Statin therapy had a clear effect on cardiovascular disease, total mortality, stroke, and myocardial infarction in patients with mild to moderate renal disease. Subgroup analysis indicated that baseline GFR, baseline creatinine level, and a history of cardiovascular disease might play an important role in the cardiovascular outcomes.			2014				3659
The impact of orthodontic treatment on the quality of life a systematic review		Zhou, Y., Wang, Y., Wang, X., Volière, G. and Hu, R.				bmc oral health	bmc oral health	BACKGROUND: Although a great number of specific quality of life measures have been developed to analyze the impact of wearing fixed appliances, there is still a paucity of systematic appraisal of the consequences of orthodontics on quality of life. To assess the current evidence of the relationship between orthodontic treatment and quality of life. METHODS: Four electronic databases were searched for articles concerning the impact of orthodontic treatment on quality of life published between January 1960 and December 2013. Electronic searches were supplemented by manual searches and reference linkages. Eligible literature was reviewed and assessed by methodologic quality as well as by analytic results. RESULTS: From 204 reviewed articles, 11 met the inclusion criteria and used standardized health related quality of life and orthodontic assessment measures. The majority of studies (7/11) were conducted among child/adolescent populations. Eight of the papers were categorized as level 1 or 2 evidence based on the criteria of the Oxford Centre for Evidence-Based Medicine. An observed association between quality of life and orthodontic treatment was generally detected irrespective of how they were assessed. However, the strength of the association could be described as modest at best. Key findings and future research considerations are described in the review. CONCLUSIONS: Findings of this review suggest that there is an association (albeit modest) between orthodontic treatment and quality of life. There is a need for further studies of their relationship, particularly studies that employ standardized assessment methods so that outcomes are uniform and thus amenable to meta-analysis.			2014				2834
Outcomes of hepatitis C screening programs targeted at risk groups hidden in the general population: a systematic review		Zuure, F. R., Urbanus, A. T., Langendam, M. W., Helsper, C. W., van den Berg, C. H., Davidovich, U. and Prins, M.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Effective screening programs are urgently needed to provide undiagnosed hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected individuals with therapy. This systematic review of characteristics and outcomes of screening programs for HCV focuses on strategies to identify HCV risk groups hidden in the general population. METHODS: We conducted a comprehensive search of MEDLINE and EMBASE databases for articles published between 1991-2010, including studies that screened the general population using either a newly developed (nonintegrated) screening program or one integrated in existing health care facilities. Look-back studies, prevalence studies, and programs targeting high-risk groups in care (e.g., current drug users) were excluded. RESULTS: After reviewing 7052 studies, we identified 67 screening programs: 24 nonintegrated; 41 programs integrated in a variety of health care facilities (e.g., general practitioner); and 2 programs with both integrated and nonintegrated strategies. Together, these programs identified approximately 25,700 HCV-infected individuals. In general, higher HCV prevalence was found in programs in countries with intermediate to high HCV prevalence, in psychiatric clinics, and in programs that used a prescreening selection based on HCV risk factors. Only 6 programs used a comparison group for evaluation purposes, and 1 program used theory about effective promotion for screening. Comparison of the programs and their effectiveness was hampered by lack of reported data on program characteristics, clinical follow-up, and type of diagnostic test. CONCLUSIONS: A prescreening selection based on risk factors can increase the efficiency of screening in low-prevalence populations, and we need programs with comparison groups to evaluate effectiveness. Also, program characteristics such as type of diagnostic test, screening uptake, and clinical outcomes should be reported systematically.			2014				3165
The effectiveness of melatonin for promoting healthy sleep: a rapid evidence assessment of the literature		Costello, R. B., Lentino, C. V., Boyd, C. C., ML, O. Connell, Crawford, C. C., Sprengel, M. L. and Deuster, P. A.				nutrition journal	nutrition journal	A systematic review was conducted using Samueli Institute's Rapid Evidence Assessment of the Literature (REAL) process to determine the evidence base for melatonin as an agent to optimize sleep or improve sleep quality, and generalize the results to a military, civilian, or other healthy, active, adult population. Multiple databases were searched yielding 35 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) meeting the review's inclusion criteria, which were assessed for methodological quality as well as for melatonin effectiveness. The majority of included studies were high quality (83.0%). Overall, according to Grading Recommendations, Assessment Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methodology, weak recommendations were made for preventing phase shifts from jet lag, for improving insomnia in both healthy volunteers and individuals with a history of insomnia, and for initiating sleep and/or improving sleep efficacy. Based on the literature to date, no recommendations for use in shift workers or to improve hormonal phase shift changes in healthy people can be made at this time. Larger and longer-duration RCTs utilizing well characterized products are needed to warrant melatonin recommendations in young, healthy adults.			2014				3868
Systematic review of management for treatment-resistant depression in adolescents		Zhou, X., Michael, K. D., Liu, Y., Del Giovane, C., Qin, B., Cohen, D., Gentile, S. and Xie, P.				bmc psychiatry	bmc psychiatry	BackgroundCurrent guidelines for treatment-resistant depression in adolescents remain inadequate. This study aimed to systematically review the management of treatment-resistant depression in adolescent patients.MethodsWe conducted an electronic database search of PUBMED, EMBASE, Cochrane, Web of Science and PsycINFO for studies with adolescent treatment-resistant depression published up to January 2014. Treatment-resistant depression was defined as failure to respond to at least one course of psychological or pharmacological treatment for depression with an adequate dosage, duration, and appropriate compliance during the current illness episode. The Cochrane risk-of-bias method was used to assess the quality of randomized controlled trials. A meta-analysis of all active treatments was conducted.ResultsEight studies with 411 depressed adolescents that fit predetermined criteria investigated pharmacological treatments and psychotherapies. Six were open-label studies, and two were randomized controlled trials. The overall response rate for all active treatments investigated was 46% (95% CI 33 to 59; N¿=¿411) with a moderately high degree of heterogeneity (I2¿=¿76.1%, 95% CI¿=¿47%-86%). When only the two randomized trials were included, the overall response rate of active treatment was 53% (95% CI¿=¿38-67; N¿=¿347). In these randomized trials, SSRI therapy plus CBT was significantly more effective than SSRI therapy alone, while amitriptyline was not more effective than placebo.ConclusionsApproximately half of the adolescents who presented with treatment-refractory depression responded to active treatment, which suggests that practitioners should remain persistent in managing these challenging cases. The combination of antidepressant medication and psychotherapy should be recommended for adolescents who present with treatment-resistant depression.			2014				3296
Effect and safety of dual anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 therapy compared to monotherapy in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive breast cancer: a systematic review		Zhang, X., Zhang, X. J., Zhang, T. Y., Yu, F. F., Wei, X., Li, Y. S. and He, J.				bmc cancer	bmc cancer	BACKGROUND: Dual anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) therapies have been shown to improve outcomes of HER2-positive breast cancer patients. We undertook a systematic review to compare treatment outcomes for patients who received single or combined anti-HER2 therapies. METHODS: We identified randomized control trials that compared dual anti-HER2 therapy and anti-HER2 monotherapy in patients with HER2-positive breast cancer. Outcomes included pathologic complete response (pCR), overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), and adverse events. Included in the analysis were seven trials that recruited 2,609 patients. RESULTS: In the neoadjuvant setting, the pooled pCR rate in the dual anti-HER2 therapy and monotherapy groups in combination with chemotherapy was 54.8% and 36%, respectively. This difference was statistically significant (relative risk, 1.56; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.23-1.97; p?<?0.001). In the metastatic setting, dual anti-HER2 therapy demonstrated significant benefits in both PFS (hazard ratio (HR), 0.71; 95% CI, 0.62-0.81; p?<?0.001) and OS (HR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.57-0.82; p?<?0.001). Subgroup analyses indicated that the addition of chemotherapy to dual anti-HER2 therapy could greatly improve pCR in the neoadjuvant settings. However, in the metastatic setting, similar PFS and OS were found in patients receiving dual anti-HER2 therapy with or without chemotherapy. Dual anti-HER2 therapy was associated with more frequent adverse events than monotherapy, but no statistical differences were observed in cardiac toxicity. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review provides a summary of all the data currently available, and confirms the benefits and risks of dual anti-HER2 therapy for HER2-positive breast cancer.			2014				3256
Efficacy of anti-VEGF and laser photocoagulation in the treatment of visual impairment due to diabetic macular edema: a systematic review and network meta-analysis		Régnier, S., Malcolm, W., Allen, F., Wright, J. and Bezlyak, V.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: Compare the efficacy of ranibizumab, aflibercept, laser, and sham in the first-line treatment of diabetic macular edema (DME) to inform technology assessments such as those conducted by the UK National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library, congress abstracts, ClinicalTrials.gov registry and Novartis data on file. INCLUSION CRITERIA: Studies reporting 6- or 12-month results of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating at least two of ranibizumab 0.5 mg pro re nata, aflibercept 2.0 mg bi-monthly, laser photocoagulation or sham. Study quality was assessed based on likelihood of bias in selection, attrition, detection and performance. OUTCOME MEASURE: Improvement in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) measured as the proportion of patients gaining ?10 letters on the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study scale. The outcome was chosen following acceptance by NICE of a Markov model with 10-letter health states in the assessment of ranibizumab for DME. META-ANALYSIS: Bayesian network meta-analyses with fixed and random effects adjusted for differences in baseline BCVA or central retinal thickness. RESULTS: The analysis included 1,978 patients from eight RCTs. The random effects model adjusting for baseline BCVA was the best model based on total residual. The efficacy of ranibizumab was numerically, but not statistically, superior to aflibercept (odds ratio [OR] 1.59; 95% credible interval [CrI], 0.61-5.37). Ranibizumab and aflibercept were statistically superior to laser monotherapy with ORs of 5.50 (2.73-13.16) and 3.45 (1.62-6.84) respectively. The probability that ranibizumab is the most efficacious treatment was 73% compared with 14% for aflibercept, 12% for ranibizumab plus laser, and 0% for laser. LIMITATIONS: Three of the eight RCTs included are not yet published. The models did not adjust for all potential effect modifiers. CONCLUSION: Ranibizumab was non-significantly superior to aflibercept and both anti-VEGF therapies had statistically superior efficacy to laser.			2014				3634
Low carbohydrate versus isoenergetic balanced diets for reducing weight and cardiovascular risk: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Naude, C. E., Schoonees, A., Senekal, M., Young, T., Garner, P. and Volmink, J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Some popular weight loss diets restricting carbohydrates (CHO) claim to be more effective, and have additional health benefits in preventing cardiovascular disease compared to balanced weight loss diets. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We compared the effects of low CHO and isoenergetic balanced weight loss diets in overweight and obese adults assessed in randomised controlled trials (minimum follow-up of 12 weeks), and summarised the effects on weight, as well as cardiovascular and diabetes risk. Dietary criteria were derived from existing macronutrient recommendations. We searched Medline, EMBASE and CENTRAL (19 March 2014). Analysis was stratified by outcomes at 3-6 months and 1-2 years, and participants with diabetes were analysed separately. We evaluated dietary adherence and used GRADE to assess the quality of evidence. We calculated mean differences (MD) and performed random-effects meta-analysis. Nineteen trials were included (n?=?3209); 3 had adequate allocation concealment. In non-diabetic participants, our analysis showed little or no difference in mean weight loss in the two groups at 3-6 months (MD 0.74 kg, 95%CI -1.49 to 0.01 kg; I2?=?53%; n?=?1745, 14 trials; moderate quality evidence) and 1-2 years (MD 0.48 kg, 95%CI -1.44 kg to 0.49 kg; I2?=?12%; n?=?1025; 7 trials, moderate quality evidence). Furthermore, little or no difference was detected at 3-6 months and 1-2 years for blood pressure, LDL, HDL and total cholesterol, triglycerides and fasting blood glucose (>914 participants). In diabetic participants, findings showed a similar pattern. CONCLUSIONS: Trials show weight loss in the short-term irrespective of whether the diet is low CHO or balanced. There is probably little or no difference in weight loss and changes in cardiovascular risk factors up to two years of follow-up when overweight and obese adults, with or without type 2 diabetes, are randomised to low CHO diets and isoenergetic balanced weight loss diets.			2014				3565
Evaluating the effectiveness of self-administration of medication (SAM) schemes in the hospital setting: a systematic review of the literature		Richardson, S. J., Brooks, H. L., Bramley, G. and Coleman, J. J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Self-administration of medicines is believed to increase patients' understanding about their medication and to promote their independence and autonomy in the hospital setting. The effect of inpatient self-administration of medication (SAM) schemes on patients, staff and institutions is currently unclear. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the literature relating to the effect of SAM schemes on the following outcomes: patient knowledge, patient compliance/medication errors, success in self-administration, patient satisfaction, staff satisfaction, staff workload, and costs. DESIGN: Keyword and text word searches of online databases were performed between January and March 2013. Included articles described and evaluated inpatient SAM schemes. Case studies and anecdotal studies were excluded. RESULTS: 43 papers were included for final analysis. Due to the heterogeneity of results and unclear findings it was not possible to perform a quantitative synthesis of results. Participation in SAM schemes often led to increased knowledge about drugs and drug regimens, but not side effects. However, the effect of SAM schemes on patient compliance/medication errors was inconclusive. Patients and staff were highly satisfied with their involvement in SAM schemes. CONCLUSIONS: SAM schemes appear to provide some benefits (e.g. increased patient knowledge), but their effect on other outcomes (e.g. compliance) is unclear. Few studies of high methodological quality using validated outcome measures exist. Inconsistencies in both measuring and reporting outcomes across studies make it challenging to compare results and draw substantive conclusions about the effectiveness of SAM schemes.			2014				3595
Effects of fish oil on serum lipid profile in dialysis patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Zhu, W., Dong, C., Du, H., Zhang, H., Chen, J., Hu, X. and Hu, F.				lipids in health and disease	lipids in health and disease	BACKGROUND: The effects of fish oil supplements on lipid profile in dialysis patients are controversial. With increasing interest in the potential health benefits of fish oil, it is important to explore its real effects. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to identify and quantify the effects of fish oil on triglyceride (TG), total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) in dialysis patients. METHODS: PubMed, EMBASE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were searched for relevant trials of fish oil and lipid profile in dialysis patients. We identified 209 potential studies and included 13 randomized controlled trials. Eligible studies, determined by consensus using predefined criteria, were reviewed in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guidelines and a meta-analysis was performed. RESULTS: Compared with the control group, serum TG and TC levels in the fish oil group were reduced by 0.23 mmol/L (95% CI, -0.31, -0.14, P <0.01) and 0.12 mmol/L (95% CI, -0.23, -0.01, P =0.03), respectively. HDL-C levels were increased by 0.20 mmol/L (95% CI, 0.01, 0.40, P <0.01) attributable to fish oil. In contrast, fish oil did not influence serum LDL-C levels. Subgroup analysis showed the effects of fish oil were stronger in subjects with higher baseline TG levels, and the long-term intervention (>12 w) demonstrated a tendency towards greater improvement of serum HDL-C and LDL-C levels compared with short-term intervention (?12 w). However, both of the changes were not statistically significant in meta-regression analysis. There were no obvious difference in effects of different doses and components of fish oil on lipid levels. CONCLUSION: Fish oil supplements reduced serum TG and TC levels, and increased HDL-C levels, without affecting LDL-C levels among dialysis patients. It should benefit patients at risk of cardiovascular diseases. Based on randomized controlled trials, we suggested a daily supplement dose of fish oil for dialysis patients of >1 g, but a high dose might not be necessary.			2014				3561
The effectiveness of teleglaucoma versus in-patient examination for glaucoma screening: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Thomas, S. M., Jeyaraman, M., Hodge, W. G., Hutnik, C., Costella, J. and Malvankar-Mehta, M. S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Glaucoma is the leading cause of irreversible visual impairment in the world affecting 60.5 million people worldwide in 2010, which is expected to increase to approximately 79.6 million by 2020. Therefore, glaucoma screening is important to detect, diagnose, and treat patients at the earlier stages to prevent disease progression and vision loss. Teleglaucoma uses stereoscopic digital imaging to take ocular images, which are transmitted electronically to an ocular specialist. The purpose is to synthesize literature to evaluate teleglaucoma, its diagnostic accuracy, healthcare system benefits, and cost-effectiveness. METHODS: A systematic search was conducted to help locate published and unpublished studies. Studies which evaluate teleglaucoma as a screening device for glaucoma were included. A meta-analysis was conducted to provide estimates of diagnostic accuracy, diagnostic odds ratio, and the relative percentage of glaucoma cases detected. The improvements to healthcare service quality and cost data were assessed. RESULTS: Of 11237 studies reviewed, 45 were included. Our results indicated that, teleglaucoma is more specific and less sensitive than in-person examination. The pooled estimates of sensitivity was 0.832 [95% CI 0.770, 0.881] and specificity was 0.790 [95% CI 0.668, 0.876]. The relative odds of a positive screen test in glaucoma cases are 18.7 times more likely than a negative screen test in a non-glaucoma cases. Additionally, the mean cost for every case of glaucoma detected was $1098.67 US and of teleglaucoma per patient screened was $922.77 US. CONCLUSION: Teleglaucoma can accurately discriminate between screen test results with greater odds for positive cases. It detects more cases of glaucoma than in-person examination. Both patients and the healthcare systems benefit from early detection, reduction in wait and travel times, increased specialist referral rates, and cost savings. Teleglaucoma is an effective screening tool for glaucoma specifically for remote and under-services communities.			2014				3487
Laparoscopic versus open resection for gastric gastrointestinal stromal tumors: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis		Chen, Q. L., Pan, Y., Cai, J. Q., Wu, D., Chen, K. and Mou, Y. P.				world journal of surgical oncology	world journal of surgical oncology	BACKGROUND: In past decades, laparoscopic surgery has been introduced for the treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). Recently, additional studies comparing laparoscopic versus open surgery for gastric GISTs have been published, and an updated meta-analysis of this subject is necessary. METHODS: A systematic search was conducted in PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Web of Science. Comparative studies of laparoscopic and open surgery for gastric GISTs published before June 2014 were identified from databases. The Newcastle-Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale was used to perform quality assessment and original data were extracted. The statistical software STATA (version 12.0) was used for the meta-analysis. RESULTS: Finally, 22 studies, including a total of 1,166 cases, meet the inclusion criteria for meta-analysis. The operation time was similar between laparoscopic and open surgery. Compared to open surgery, laparoscopic resection was associated withless blood loss (WMD?=?-58.91 ml; 95% CI, -84.60 to -33.22 ml; P <0.01); earlier time to flatus (WMD?=?-1.31 d; 95% CI, -1.56 to -1.06, P <0.01) and oral diet (WMD?=?-1.75 d; 95% CI, -2.12 to -1.39; P <0.01); shorter hospital stay (WMD?=?-3.68 d; 95% CI, -4.47 to -2.88; P <0.01); and decreased overall complications (relative risk?=?0.57; 95% CI, 0.37 to 0.89; P?=?0.01). For long-term outcomes, there were no significant differences between two surgical procedures on recurrence. CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic surgery for gastric GISTs is acceptable for selective patients with better short-term outcomes compared with open surgery. The long-term survival situation of patients mainly depends on the nature of tumor itself, and laparoscopic surgery was not associated with worse oncological outcomes.			2014				3404
Parental financial incentives for increasing preschool vaccination uptake: systematic review		Wigham, S., Ternent, L., Bryant, A., Robalino, S., Sniehotta, F. F. and Adams, J.				pediatrics	pediatrics	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Financial incentives have been used to promote vaccination uptake but are not always viewed as acceptable. Quasimandatory policies, such as requiring vaccinations for school enrollment, are widely implemented in some countries. A systematic review was conducted to determine the effectiveness, acceptability, and economic costs and consequences of parental financial incentives and quasimandatory schemes for increasing the uptake of preschool vaccinations in high-income countries. METHODS: Electronic databases and gray literature were searched for randomized controlled trials, controlled before-and-after studies, and time series analyses examining the effectiveness of parental financial incentives and quasimandatory schemes, as well as any empirical studies exploring acceptability. All included studies were screened for information on economic costs and consequences. Two reviewers independently assessed studies for inclusion, extracted data, and assessed the quality of selected articles by using established instruments. Studies were synthesized in narrative reviews. RESULTS: Four studies on the effectiveness and 6 on the acceptability of parental financial incentives and quasimandatory interventions met the inclusion criteria. Only 1 study reported on costs and consequences. Studies of effectiveness had low risk of bias but displayed substantial heterogeneity in terms of interventions and methods. CONCLUSIONS: There was insufficient evidence to conclude whether these interventions were effective. Studies of acceptability suggested a preference, in settings where this already occurs, for incentives linking vaccinations to access to education. There was insufficient evidence to draw conclusions on economic costs and consequences.			2014				2693
Continuous positive airway pressure and noninvasive ventilation in prehospital treatment of patients with acute respiratory failure: a systematic review of controlled studies		Bakke, S. A., Botker, M. T., Riddervold, I. S., Kirkegaard, H. and Christensen, E. F.				scandinavian journal of trauma, resuscitation and emergency medicine	scandinavian journal of trauma, resuscitation and emergency medicine	Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and noninvasive ventilation (NIV) are frequently used inhospital for treating respiratory failure, especially in treatment of acute cardiogenic pulmonary edema and exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Early initiation of treatment is important for success and introduction already in the prehospital setting may be beneficial. Our goal was to assess the evidence for an effect of prehospital CPAP or NIV as a supplement to standard medical treatment alone on the following outcome measures; mortality, hospital length of stay, intensive care unit length of stay, and intubation rate. We undertook a systematic review based on a search in the three databases: PubMed, EMBASE, and Cochrane. We included 12 studies in our review, but only four of these were of acceptable size and quality to conclude on our endpoints of interest. All four studies examine prehospital CPAP. Of these, only one small, randomized controlled trial shows a reduced mortality rate and a reduced intubation rate with supplemental CPAP. The other three studies have neutral findings, but in two of these a trend toward lower intubation rate is found. The effect of supplemental NIV has only been evaluated in smaller studies with insufficient power to conclude on our endpoints. None of these studies have shown an effect on neither mortality nor intubation rate, but two small, randomized controlled trials show a reduction in intensive care unit length of stay and a trend toward lower intubation rate. The risk of both type two errors and publication bias is evident, and the findings are not consistent enough to make solid conclusion on supplemental prehospital NIV. Large, randomized controlled trials regarding the effect of NIV and CPAP as supplement to standard medical treatment alone, in the prehospital setting, are needed.			2014				3205
Non-Vitamin K Antagonist Oral Anticoagulants and the Treatment of Venous Thromboembolism in Cancer Patients: A Semi Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Safety and Efficacy Outcomes		Larsen, T. B., Nielsen, P. B., Skjøth, F., Rasmussen, L. H. and Lip, G. Y.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: This study sought to investigate the relative efficacy and safety of non-vitamin K oral anticoagulants (NOACs) for the treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in cancer patients. METHODS: A systematic search of the PubMed, EMBASE, and ClinicalTrials.gov databases identified all multicentre, randomised phase III trials investigating the initial use of NOAC against a vitamin K antagonist (VKA) together with subcutaneous heparin or low molecular weight heparin (upstart) for treatment of VTE. Outcomes of interest were recurrent VTE (deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism), and clinically relevant bleeding. RESULTS: Four randomised controlled phase III trials were included, comprising a total of 19,060 patients randomised to either NOAC or VKA. For patients with active cancer (N?=?759), the analysis on the efficacy outcomes demonstrated a trend in favour of NOAC (OR 0.56, 95% CI 0.28-1.13). Similar, analyses on the safety outcomes comparing NOAC to VKA and enoxaparin demonstrated a trend in favour of NOAC (OR 0.88, 95% CI 0.57-1.35). CONCLUSION: Point estimates of the effect size suggest an important estimated beneficial effect of NOAC in the treatment of VTE in cancer, in terms of efficacy and safety, but given the small numbers of patients with cancer in the randomised trials, statistical significance was not achieved.			2014				3658
The efficacy of resiliency training programs: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials		Leppin, A. L., Bora, P. R., Tilburt, J. C., Gionfriddo, M. R., Zeballos-Palacios, C., Dulohery, M. M., Sood, A., Erwin, P. J., Brito, J. P., Boehmer, K. R. and Montori, V. M.				plos one	plos one	IMPORTANCE: Poor mental health places a burden on individuals and populations. Resilient persons are able to adapt to life's challenges and maintain high quality of life and function. Finding effective strategies to bolster resilience in individuals and populations is of interest to many stakeholders. OBJECTIVES: To synthesize the evidence for resiliency training programs in improving mental health and capacity in 1) diverse adult populations and 2) persons with chronic diseases. DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases, clinical trial registries, and bibliographies. We also contacted study authors and field experts. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized trials assessing the efficacy of any program intended to enhance resilience in adults and published after 1990. No restrictions were made based on outcome measured or comparator used. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Reviewers worked independently and in duplicate to extract study characteristics and data. These were confirmed with authors. We conducted a random effects meta-analysis on available data and tested for interaction in planned subgroups. MAIN OUTCOMES: The standardized mean difference (SMD) effect of resiliency training programs on 1) resilience/hardiness, 2) quality of life/well-being, 3) self-efficacy/activation, 4) depression, 5) stress, and 6) anxiety. RESULTS: We found 25 small trials at moderate to high risk of bias. Interventions varied in format and theoretical approach. Random effects meta-analysis showed a moderate effect of generalized stress-directed programs on enhancing resilience [pooled SMD 0.37 (95% CI 0.18, 0.57) p?=?.0002; I2?=?41%] within 3 months of follow up. Improvement in other outcomes was favorable to the interventions and reached statistical significance after removing two studies at high risk of bias. Trauma-induced stress-directed programs significantly improved stress [-0.53 (-1.04, -0.03) p?=?.03; I2?=?73%] and depression [-0.51 (-0.92, -0.10) p?=?.04; I2?=?61%]. CONCLUSIONS: We found evidence warranting low confidence that resiliency training programs have a small to moderate effect at improving resilience and other mental health outcomes. Further study is needed to better define the resilience construct and to design interventions specific to it. REGISTRATION NUMBER: PROSPERO #CRD42014007185.			2014				3374
Aerobic exercise for Parkinson's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Shu, H. F., Yang, T., Yu, S. X., Huang, H. D., Jiang, L. L., Gu, J. W. and Kuang, Y. Q.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Although some trials assessed the effectiveness of aerobic exercise for Parkinson's disease (PD), the role of aerobic exercise in the management of PD remained controversial. OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this systematic review is to evaluate the evidence about whether aerobic exercise is effective for PD. METHODS: Seven electronic databases, up to December 2013, were searched to identify relevant studies. Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed methodological quality based on PEDro scale. Standardised mean difference (SMD) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of random-effects model were calculated. And heterogeneity was assessed based on the I2 statistic. RESULTS: 18 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with 901 patients were eligible. The aggregated results suggested that aerobic exercise should show superior effects in improving motor actions (SMD, -0.57; 95% CI -0.94 to -0.19; p?=?0.003), balance (SMD, 2.02; 95% CI 0.45 to 3.59; p?=?0.01), and gait (SMD, 0.33; 95% CI 0.17 to 0.49; p<0.0001) in patients with PD, but not in quality of life (SMD, 0.11; 95% CI -0.23 to 0.46; p?=?0.52). And there was no valid evidence on follow-up effects of aerobic exercise for PD. CONCLUSION: Aerobic exercise showed immediate beneficial effects in improving motor action, balance, and gait in patients with PD. However, given no evidence on follow-up effects, large-scale RCTs with long follow-up are warrant to confirm the current findings.			2014				2909
Improving the adherence of type 2 diabetes mellitus patients with pharmacy care: a systematic review of randomized controlled trials		Antoine, S. L., Pieper, D., Mathes, T. and Eikermann, M.				bmc endocrine disorders	bmc endocrine disorders	BACKGROUND: Oral medication for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus plays an important role in diabetes care and is associated with a high level self-care behavior and self-management. However, poor adherence to diabetes treatment is common which causes severe health complications and increased mortality. Barriers to adherence may consist of complex treatment regimens often along with long-term multi-therapies, side effects due to the medication as well as insufficient, incomprehensible or confusing information or instructions provided by the health care provider. Multidisciplinary approaches can support adherence success and can enable a more effective management of diabetes care. One approach in diabetes care can be the involvement of a pharmacist. The aim was to analyze the effectiveness of adherence-enhancing pharmacist interventions for oral medication in type 2 diabetes mellitus. METHODS: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials. The study quality was assessed with the Cochrane risk of bias tool. RESULTS: Of 491 hits, six publications were included. Two studies mainly examining educational interventions showed a significant improvement in adherence. Moreover, the quality of the included studies was deficient. CONCLUSION: Although pharmacist interventions might potentially improve adherence to type 2 diabetes mellitus medication, high-quality studies are needed to assess effectiveness.			2014				3113
Pain management with acupuncture in osteoarthritis: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Manyanga, T., Froese, M., Zarychanski, R., Abou-Setta, A., Friesen, C., Tennenhouse, M. and Shay, B. L.				bmc complementary and alternative medicine	bmc complementary and alternative medicine	BACKGROUND: The utility of acupuncture in managing osteoarthritis symptoms is uncertain. Trial results are conflicting and previous systematic reviews may have overestimated the benefits of acupuncture. METHODS: Two reviewers independently identified randomized controlled trials (up to May 2014) from multiple electronic sources (including PubMed/Medline, EMBASE, and CENTRAL) and reference lists of relevant articles, extracted data and assessed risk of bias (Cochrane's Risk of Bias tool). Pooled data are expressed as mean differences (MD), with 95% confidence intervals (CI) (random-effects model). RESULTS: We included 12 trials (1763 participants) comparing acupuncture to sham acupuncture, no treatment or usual care. We adjudicated most trials to be unclear (64%) or high (9%) risk of bias. Acupuncture use was associated with significant reductions in pain intensity (MD -0.29, 95% CI -0.55 to -0.02, I2 0%, 10 trials, 1699 participants), functional mobility (standardized MD -0.34, 95% CI -0.55 to -0.14, I2 70%, 9 trials, 1543 participants), health-related quality of life (standardized MD -0.36, 95% CI -0.58 to -0.14, I2 50%, 3 trials, 958 participants). Subgroup analysis of pain intensity by intervention duration suggested greater pain intensity reduction with intervention periods greater than 4 weeks (MD -0.38, 95% CI -0.69 to -0.06, I2 0%, 6 trials, 1239 participants). CONCLUSIONS: The use of acupuncture is associated with significant reductions in pain intensity, improvement in functional mobility and quality of life. While the differences are not as great as shown by other reviews, current evidence supports the use of acupuncture as an alternative for traditional analgesics in patients with osteoarthritis. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: CRD42013005405.			2014				2858
Comparative Effectiveness of Second-Line Targeted Therapies for Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Real-World Observational Studies		Heng, D. Y., Signorovitch, J., Swallow, E., Li, N., Zhong, Y., Qin, P., Zhuo, D. Y., Wang, X., Park, J., Stergiopoulos, S. and Kollmannsberger, C.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: The optimal sequencing of targeted therapies for metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC) is unknown. Observational studies with a variety of designs have reported differing results. The objective of this study is to systematically summarize and interpret the published real-world evidence comparing sequential treatment for mRCC. METHODS: A search was conducted in Medline and Embase (2009-2013), and conference proceedings from American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), ASCO Genitourinary Cancers Symposium (ASCO-GU), and European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) (2011-2013). We systematically reviewed observational studies comparing second-line mRCC treatment with mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors (mTORi) versus vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI). Studies were evaluated for 1) use of a retrospective cohort design after initiation of second-line therapy, 2) adjustment for patient characteristics, and 3) use of data from multiple centers. Meta-analyses were conducted for comparisons of overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). RESULTS: Ten studies reported OS and exhibited significant heterogeneity in estimated second-line treatment effects (I2?=?68%; P?=?0.001). Four of these were adjusted, multicenter, retrospective cohort studies, and these showed no evidence of heterogeneity (I2?=?0%; P?=?0.61) and a significant association between second-line mTORi (>75% everolimus) and longer OS compared to VEGF TKI (>60% sorafenib) (HR?=?0.82, 95% CI: 0.68 to 0.98) in a meta-analysis. Seven studies comparing PFS showed significant heterogeneity overall and among the adjusted, multicenter, retrospective cohort studies. Real-world observational data for axitinib outcomes was limited at the time of this study. CONCLUSIONS: Real-world studies employed different designs and reported heterogeneous results comparing the effectiveness of second-line mTORi and VEGF TKI in the treatment of mRCC. Within the subset of adjusted, multicenter observational studies, second-line use of mTORi was associated with significantly prolonged survival compared with second-line use of VEGF TKI.			2014				3596
Use of neuraminidase inhibitors for rapid containment of influenza: a systematic review and meta-analysis of individual and household transmission studies		Okoli, G. N., Otete, H. E., Beck, C. R. and Nguyen-Van-Tam, J. S.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of neuraminidase inhibitors for use in rapid containment of influenza. METHOD: We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis in accordance with the PRISMA statement. Healthcare databases and sources of grey literature were searched up to 2012 and records screened against protocol eligibility criteria. Data extraction and risk of bias assessments were performed using a piloted form. Results were synthesised narratively and we undertook meta-analyses to calculate pooled estimates of effect, statistical heterogeneity and assessed publication bias. FINDINGS: Nine randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and eight observational studies met the inclusion criteria. Neuraminidase inhibitors provided 67 to 89% protection for individuals following prophylaxis. Meta-analysis of individual protection showed a significantly lower pooled odds of laboratory confirmed seasonal or influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 infection following oseltamivir usage compared to placebo or no therapy (n?=?8 studies; odds ratio (OR)?=?0.11; 95% confidence interval (CI)?=?0.06 to 0.20; p<0.001; I2?=?58.7%). This result was comparable to the pooled odds ratio for individual protection with zanamivir (OR?=?0.23; 95% CI 0.16 to 0.35). Similar point estimates were obtained with widely overlapping 95% CIs for household protection with oseltamivir or zanamivir. We found no studies of neuraminidase inhibitors to prevent population-wide community transmission of influenza. CONCLUSION: Oseltamivir and zanamivir are effective for prophylaxis of individuals and households irrespective of treatment of the index case. There are no data which directly support an effect on wider community transmission. PROTOCOL REGISTRY: PROSPERO registration number: CRD42013003880.			2014				3126
Application of principles of exercise training in sub-acute and chronic stroke survivors: a systematic review		Ammann, B. C., Knols, R. H., Baschung, P., de Bie, R. A. and de Bruin, E. D.				bmc neurology	bmc neurology	BACKGROUND: There is increasing evidence for the beneficial effects of exercise training in stroke survivors. In order to reach the desired training effects, exercise training principles must be considered as this ensures the prescription of adequate exercises at an adequate dose. Moreover, exercise training interventions must be designed in a way that maximizes patients' adherence to the prescribed exercise regimen. The objectives of this systematic review were (1) to investigate whether training principles for physical exercise interventions are reported in RCTs for sub-acute and chronic stroke survivors, (2) to evaluate whether the RCTs reported the prescription of the FITT components of the exercise interventions as well as (3) patients' adherence to this prescription, and (4) to assess the risk of bias of the included studies. METHODS: We performed a systematic review of RCTs with exercise training as the primary intervention and muscular strength and/or endurance as primary outcomes. The Cochrane library's risk of bias (ROB) tool was used to judge the methodological quality of RCTs. RESULTS: Thirty-seven RCTs were included in this systematic review. Eighteen studies (48.7%) focused on aerobic, 8 (21.6%) on resistance and 11 (29.7%) on combined interventions of aerobic and resistive strength exercise. Twenty-nine studies (78.4%) included only chronic stroke survivors, 5 studies (13.5%) only sub-acute stroke survivors whilst 3 studies (8.1%) included both. In terms of principle of exercise training, 89% reported specificity, 75.7% progression, 48.7% overload, 37.8% initial values, 32.4% reversibility and 13.5% diminishing returns. One RCT described all principles of physical exercise training and 19 (51.4%) all FITT components. Patients' adherence to exercise prescription was accounted for in 3 studies (8.1%). Failure to report blinding in patients and participants and failure to report allocation concealment were the most prevalent methodological shortcomings. CONCLUSIONS: Incomplete and inconsistent reporting of (1) training components, (2) underlying exercise training principles and (3) patient adherence together with (4) a broad variation in the methodological quality of the included RCTs limit both the utility and reproducibility of physical exercise programs in stroke patients.			2014				2775
Does Cardiac Rehabilitation After an Acute Cardiac Syndrome Lead to Changes in Physical Activity Habits? A Systematic Review		Ter Hoeve, N., Huisstede, B. M., Stam, H. J., van Domburg, R. T., Sunamura, M. and van den Berg-Emons, R. J.				physical therapy	physical therapy	BACKGROUND: Optimal physical activity levels have health benefits for patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and are an important goal of cardiac rehabilitation (CR). PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to systematically review literature regarding short-term effects (<6 months after completion of CR) and long-term effects (?6 months after completion) of standard CR on physical activity levels in patients with ACS. DATA SOURCES: PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL, and PEDro were systematically searched for relevant randomized clinical trials (RCTs) published from 1990 till 2012. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized clinical trials investigating CR for patients with ACS reporting physical activity level were reviewed. DATA EXTRACTION: Two reviewers independently selected articles, extracted data, and assessed methodological quality. Result were summarized with a best evidence synthesis. Results were categorized as: (1) center-based/home-based CR versus no intervention, (2) comparison of different durations of CR, and (3) comparison of 2 types of CR. DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 26 RCTs were included. Compared with no intervention, there was at most conflicting evidence for center-based CR and moderate evidence for home-based CR for short-term effectiveness. Limited evidence and no evidence were found for long-term maintenance for center-based and home-based CR, respectively. When directly compared with center-based CR, moderate evidence showed that home-based CR has better long-term effects. There was no clear evidence that increasing training volume, extending duration of CR, or adding an extra intervention to CR is more effective. LIMITATIONS: Because of variety in included RCTs in CR interventions and outcome measures, pooling of data was not possible. Therefore, a best evidence synthesis was used. CONCLUSIONS: It would appear that center-based CR is not sufficient to improve and maintain physical activity habits. Home-based programs might be more successful, but the literature on these programs is limited. More research on finding successful interventions to improve activity habits is needed.			2015				9767
Ranibizumab versus bevacizumab for ophthalmic diseases related to neovascularisation: a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials		Wu, B., Wu, H., Liu, X., Lin, H. and Li, J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Bevacizumab is believed to be as effective and safe as ranibizumab for ophthalmic diseases; however, its magnitude of effectiveness and safety profile remain controversial. Thus, a meta-analysis and systematic review appears necessary. METHODS: PubMed and EMBASE were systematically searched with no restrictions. All relevant citations comparing ranibizumab and bevacizumab were considered for inclusion. Pooled effect estimates were obtained using a fixed- and random-effects meta-analysis. RESULTS: Nine independent randomised-controlled clinical trials (RCTs) involving 2,289 participants were identified. Compared with bevacizumab, the overall combined weighted mean difference (WMD) of the mean change in visual acuity for ranibizumab was 0.52 letters (95% CI -0.11-1.14). The odds ratios (ORs) of gaining ?15, gaining 5-14, losing 5-14 and losing ?15 letters were 1.10 (95% CI 0.90-1.33), 0.93 (95% CI 0.77-1.11), 0.89 (95% CI 0.65-1.22) and 0.95 (95% CI 0.73-1.25), respectively. The risk of serious systemic events increased by 17% (95% CI 6%-27%, p?=?0.0042) for bevacizumab treatment in comparison with ranibizumab. No statistically significant differences between the two treatments were found for the nonfatal arterial thrombotic events, ocular serious adverse, death from vascular and all causes events. CONCLUSIONS: Bevacizumab is not inferior to ranibizumab as a treatment for achieving visual acuity. The use of bevacizumab was associated with an increased risk of developing serious systemic events. Weighing the costs and health outcomes is necessary when selecting between bevacizumab and ranibizumab for ophthalmic diseases. Due to the limitations of the available data, further research is needed.			2014				4006
Differences in functional outcomes for adult patients with prosthodontically-treated and -untreated shortened dental arches: a systematic review		Khan, S., Musekiwa, A., Chikte, U. M. and Omar, R.				plos one	plos one	UNLABELLED: This review examined differences in functional outcomes and patient satisfaction when shortened dental arches are left untreated compared to their restoration to complete arch lengths with different prosthodontic interventions. METHODS: A protocol was developed according to the criteria for a systematic review. All relevant databases were searched to identify appropriate clinical trials regardless of language or publication status. Predetermined eligibility criteria were applied, trial quality assessed and data extracted for each study. Relevant outcomes assessed were: functioning ability, patient satisfaction and harmful effects on oral structures. RESULTS: Searches yielded 101 articles: 81 from electronic databases and 20 from reference lists of retrieved articles (PEARLing searches). Sixty-nine citations were assessed for eligibility after removing 32 duplicate records. After reading titles and abstracts, a total of 41 records were excluded and the full-texts of the remaining 28 records were read. Only 21 records were included for the SR because 7 records were excluded after reading the full-text reports. These 21 records report the outcomes of four randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and one non-randomized clinical trial (CT) which were pre-specified and used for this review. No on-going studies were found and no eligible studies were excluded for failure to report the reviewer's pre-specified outcomes. Outcomes were reported in the retrieved 21 articles. A narrative explanation of the pre-specified outcomes is reported for the 3 comparison groups (which were based on the different interventions used for the individual clinical trials). The shortened dental arch as a treatment option is encouraging in terms of functioning, patient satisfaction and cost-effectiveness. By using only high quality studies it was expected that the results would be more reliable when making conclusions and recommendations, but some of the included studies had to be downgraded due to methodological errors.			2014				3079
Local anaesthetic infiltration for peri-operative pain control in total hip and knee replacement: systematic review and meta-analyses of short- and long-term effectiveness		Marques, E. M., Jones, H. E., Elvers, K. T., Pyke, M., Blom, A. W. and Beswick, A. D.				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	BACKGROUND: Surgical pain is managed with multi-modal anaesthesia in total hip replacement (THR) and total knee replacement (TKR). It is unclear whether including local anaesthetic infiltration before wound closure provides additional pain control. METHODS: We performed a systematic review of randomised controlled trials of local anaesthetic infiltration in patients receiving THR or TKR. We searched MEDLINE, Embase and Cochrane CENTRAL to December 2012. Two reviewers screened abstracts, extracted data, and contacted authors for unpublished outcomes and data. Outcomes collected were post-operative pain at rest and during activity after 24 and 48 hours, opioid requirement, mobilisation, hospital stay and complications. When feasible, we estimated pooled treatment effects using random effects meta-analyses. RESULTS: In 13 studies including 909 patients undergoing THR, patients receiving local anaesthetic infiltration experienced a greater reduction in pain at 24 hours at rest by standardised mean difference (SMD) -0.61 (95% CI -1.05, -0.16; p = 0.008) and by SMD -0.43 (95% CI -0.78 -0.09; p = 0.014) at 48 hours during activity.In TKR, diverse multi-modal regimens were reported. In 23 studies including 1439 patients undergoing TKR, local anaesthetic infiltration reduced pain on average by SMD -0.40 (95% CI -0.58, -0.22; p < 0.001) at 24 hours at rest and by SMD -0.27 (95% CI -0.50, -0.05; p = 0.018) at 48 hours during activity, compared with patients receiving no infiltration or placebo. There was evidence of a larger reduction in studies delivering additional local anaesthetic after wound closure. There was no evidence of pain control additional to that provided by femoral nerve block.Patients receiving local anaesthetic infiltration spent on average an estimated 0.83 (95% CI 1.54, 0.12; p = 0.022) and 0.87 (95% CI 1.62, 0.11; p = 0.025) fewer days in hospital after THR and TKR respectively, had reduced opioid consumption, earlier mobilisation, and lower incidence of vomiting.Few studies reported long-term outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Local anaesthetic infiltration is effective in reducing short-term pain and hospital stay in patients receiving THR and TKR. Studies should assess whether local anaesthetic infiltration can prevent long-term pain. Enhanced pain control with additional analgesia through a catheter should be weighed against a possible infection risk.			2014				3251
Effectiveness of ART and condom use for prevention of sexual HIV transmission in serodiscordant couples: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Liu, H., Su, Y., Zhu, L., Xing, J., Wu, J. and Wang, N.				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: Consistent and correct condom use and suppressive antiretroviral therapy for the infected partner are two of the primary strategies recommended for prevention of heterosexual HIV transmission in serodiscordant couples today. The applied effectiveness of treatment as a prevention strategy in China is still under investigation, and much less is known about its effects in the presence of other prevention strategies such as consistent condom use. METHODS: We conducted a systematic search in PubMed and three Chinese language databases to identify relevant articles for the estimation of relative effectiveness of a) consistent condom use and b) ART use by index partners for preventing HIV transmission in serodiscordant couples. We also estimated the prevention effectiveness of ART stratified by condom use level and the prevention effectiveness of consistent condom use stratified by ART use level. RESULTS: Pooled results from the eleven eligible studies found a pooled HIV seroconversion incidence of 0.92 cases per 100 person years (PY) among HIV-negative spouses whose index partners were taking ART versus 2.45 cases per 100 PY in untreated couples. The IRR comparing seroconversion in couples where the index-partner was on ART versus not on ART was 0.47 (95%CI: 0.43, 0.52), while stratified by condom use, the IRR was 0.33(0.17,0.64). The IRR comparing incidence in couples reporting ""consistent condom use"" versus those reporting otherwise was 0.02(95%CI:0.01,0.04), after stratified by ART use level, the IRR was 0.01(95%CI: 0.00, 0.06). CONCLUSIONS: ART use by index partners could reduce HIV transmission in serodiscordant couples, and the effectiveness of this prevention strategy could be further increased with consistent condom use."			2014				3554
Integrating national community-based health worker programmes into health systems: a systematic review identifying lessons learned from low-and middle-income countries		Zulu, J. M., Kinsman, J., Michelo, C. and Hurtig, A. K.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Despite the development of national community-based health worker (CBHW) programmes in several low- and middle-income countries, their integration into health systems has not been optimal. Studies have been conducted to investigate the factors influencing the integration processes, but systematic reviews to provide a more comprehensive understanding are lacking. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of published research to understand factors that may influence the integration of national CBHW programmes into health systems in low- and middle-income countries. To be included in the study, CBHW programmes should have been developed by the government and have standardised training, supervision and incentive structures. A conceptual framework on the integration of health innovations into health systems guided the review. We identified 3410 records, of which 36 were finally selected, and on which an analysis was conducted concerning the themes and pathways associated with different factors that may influence the integration process. RESULTS: Four programmes from Brazil, Ethiopia, India and Pakistan met the inclusion criteria. Different aspects of each of these programmes were integrated in different ways into their respective health systems. Factors that facilitated the integration process included the magnitude of countries' human resources for health problems and the associated discourses about how to address these problems; the perceived relative advantage of national CBHWs with regard to delivering health services over training and retaining highly skilled health workers; and the participation of some politicians and community members in programme processes, with the result that they viewed the programmes as legitimate, credible and relevant. Finally, integration of programmes within the existing health systems enhanced programme compatibility with the health systems' governance, financing and training functions. Factors that inhibited the integration process included a rapid scale-up process; resistance from other health workers; discrimination of CBHWs based on social, gender and economic status; ineffective incentive structures; inadequate infrastructure and supplies; and hierarchical and parallel communication structures. CONCLUSIONS: CBHW programmes should design their scale-up strategy differently based on current contextual factors. Further, adoption of a stepwise approach to the scale-up and integration process may positively shape the integration process of CBHW programmes into health systems.			2014				3089
Influenza vaccination in patients with end-stage renal disease: systematic review and assessment of quality of evidence related to vaccine efficacy, effectiveness, and safety		Remschmidt, C., Wichmann, O. and Harder, T.				bmc medicine	bmc medicine	BackgroundVaccination against influenza is recommended in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). However, so far, no systematic review has summarized the available evidence on the effectiveness and safety of influenza vaccination in this patient group.MethodsWe conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis and assessed the quality of evidence using the GRADE methodology. We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library databases, ClinicalTrials.gov, and reference lists for studies on efficacy, effectiveness, and/or safety of seasonal influenza vaccination in patients with ESRD receiving dialysis. All reported clinical outcomes were considered, including all-cause mortality, cardiac death, infectious death, all-cause hospitalization, hospitalization due to influenza or pneumonia, hospitalization due to bacteremia, viremia, or septicemia, hospitalization due to respiratory infection, ICU admission, and influenza-like illness.ResultsFive observational studies and no randomized-controlled trial were identified. In four studies, risk of bias was high regarding all reported outcomes. Strong residual confounding was likely to be present in one study reporting on three outcomes, as indicated by significant protective effects of vaccination outside influenza seasons. Therefore, the statistically significant protective effects on all-cause mortality (vaccine effectiveness (VE), 32%; 95% CI, 24¿39%), cardiac death (VE, 16%; 95% CI, 1¿29%), hospitalization due to influenza or pneumonia (VE, 14%; 95% CI, 7¿20%), ICU admission (VE, 81%; 95% CI, 63¿86%), and influenza-like illness (VE, 12%; 95% CI, 10¿14%) have to be taken with caution. According to GRADE, the quality of the body of evidence was considered very low for all outcomes. No study reported on laboratory-confirmed influenza virus infections or on safety endpoints.ConclusionsEvidence on the protective effects of influenza vaccination in patients with ESRD is limited and of very low quality. Since VE estimates in the available literature are prone to unmeasured confounding, studies using randomization or quasi-experimental designs are needed to determine the extent by which vaccination prevents influenza and related clinical outcomes in this at-risk population. However, given the high rates of health-endangering events in these patients, even a low VE can be considered as sufficient to recommend annual influenza vaccination.			2014				3199
A systematic review of studies using pedometers as an intervention for musculoskeletal diseases		Mansi, S., Milosavljevic, S., Baxter, G. D., Tumilty, S. and Hendrick, P.				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	"BACKGROUND: Physical activity (PA) plays an important role in the prevention and management of a number of chronic conditions. AIM: to investigate the evidence for effectiveness of pedometer-driven walking programs to promote physical activity among patients with musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). METHOD: A comprehensive systematic review was performed using 11 electronic databases up to 20 February 2014. Keywords and MeSH terms included ""musculoskeletal disorders"", ""walking"", and ""pedometer"". Randomized controlled trials, published in English, that examined the effects of a pedometer-based walking intervention to increase physical activity levels and improve physical function and pain in patients with musculoskeletal disorders were included. RESULT: Of the 1996 articles retrieved, seven studies ranging in date of publication from 1998 to 2013 met the inclusion criteria, allowing data extraction on 484 participants with an age range of 40 to 82 years. Interventions lasted from 4 weeks to 12 months and the results across studies showed significant increases in step count (p < 0.05) following the intervention. Across these studies, there was a mean increase in PA of 1950 steps per day relative to baseline. Four studies reported improved scores for pain and/or physical function at the intervention completion point relative to controls. CONCLUSION: This study provides strong evidence for the effectiveness of pedometer walking interventions in increasing PA levels for patients with MSDs. Our findings suggest that a combination of interventions is likely to be the most effective strategy to maximize health benefits in the short term. Further research should include larger sample sizes, and longer intervention durations are required to support the role of pedometer walking interventions as a long term intervention for management of musculoskeletal disorders."			2014				3024
Chemotherapy or targeted therapy as second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer. A systematic review and meta-analysis of published studies		Iacovelli, R., Pietrantonio, F., Farcomeni, A., Maggi, C., Palazzo, A., Ricchini, F., de Braud, F. and Di Bartolomeo, M.				plos one	plos one	Chemotherapy is a cornerstone in treatments of gastric cancer, but despite its benefit, less than 60% of patients receive salvage therapy in clinical practice. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis based on trial data on the role of second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer. MEDLINE/PubMed and Cochrane Library were searched for randomized phase III trials that compared active therapy to best supportive care in advanced gastric cancer. Data extraction was conducted according to the PRISMA statement. Summary HR for OS was calculated using a hierarchical Bayesian model and subgroup analysis was performed based on baseline Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG) performance status (0 vs. 1 or more). A total of 1,407 patients were evaluable for efficacy, 908 were treated in the experimental arms, with chemotherapy (231 pts) or with targeted therapies (677 pts). The risk of death was decreased by 18% (HR?=?0.82; 95% CI, 0.79-0.85; posterior probability HR?1: <0.00001) with active therapies. Chemotherapy and ramucirumab were able to decrease this risk by 27% and 22%, respectively. No differences were found between chemotherapy and ramucirumab. In patients with ECOG?=?0 a greater benefit was found for chemotherapy with a reduction of the risk of death by 43% and no benefits were found for ramucirumab or everolimus. In patients with ECOG?=?1 or more a significant reduction of the risk of death by 32% was reported in patients treated with ramucirumab, even if no significant difference was reported between chemotherapy and ramucirumab. This analysis reports that active and available therapies are able to prolong survival in patients with advanced gastric cancer with a different outcome based on initial patient's performance status. New trials based on a better patient stratification are awaited.			2014				3167
Systematic review of the efficacy of cognitive-behavior therapy related treatments for victims of natural disasters: a worldwide problem		Lopes, A. P., Macedo, T. F., Coutinho, E. S., Figueira, I. and Ventura, P. R.				plos one	plos one	Natural disasters can have devastating consequences. Each year, about 225 million people are victims of natural disasters worldwide, and up to 13,5 million of these people can develop post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in the first or second year following the disaster. Cognitive-behavior therapy (CBT) is the first-choice treatment for this disorder. In order to evaluate the efficacy of psychotherapeutic treatment based on cognitive-behavior therapy for people who developed post traumatic stress disorder after natural disasters we conducted a systematic search of published studies. We used the terms reported below in the electronic databases ISI Web of Science, PsycINFO, PubMed, PILOTS and Scopus with no restrictions of language or publication date. Articles that described randomized controlled, non-randomized controlled and non controlled studies on the efficacy of cognitive-behavior therapy for individuals diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder after exposure to a natural disaster were eligible for inclusion. The studies were required to use a standardized measure of effectiveness before and after the intervention and have a group of patients who had used cognitive-behavior therapy as the only intervention. Our search identified 820 studies, and 11 were selected for this review. These 11 studies involved 742 subjects, 10 related to earthquakes and 1 to a hurricane. The cognitive-behavior therapy techniques used were various: 7 studies used exposure therapy, 2 studies used problem solving, and the only 2 studies with adolescents used techniques including reconstructions and reprocessing of the traumatic experience. As limitations, the search involved only five electronic databases, no experts in the field were consulted, and the heterogeneity of the findings made it impossible to perform a meta-analysis. The results suggest the efficacy of cognitive-behavior therapy, particularly exposure techniques, for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder after earthquakes. However, further studies with stronger methodologies, i.e. randomized-control trials and non-randomized controlled trials, are needed.			2014				3148
Systematic review of the risk of adverse outcomes associated with vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors for the treatment of cancer		Faruque, L. I., Lin, M., Battistella, M., Wiebe, N., Reiman, T., Hemmelgarn, B., Thomas, C. and Tonelli, M.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Anti-angiogenic therapy targeted at vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is now used to treat several types of cancer. We did a systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to summarize the adverse effects of vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitors (VEGFi), focusing on those with vascular pathogenesis. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE and Cochrane Library until April 19, 2012 to identify parallel RCTs comparing a VEGFi with a control among adults with any cancer. We pooled the risk of mortality, vascular events (myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, and thromboembolism), hypertension and new proteinuria using random-effects models and calculated unadjusted relative risk (RR). We also did meta-regression and assessed publication bias. We retrieved 83 comparisons from 72 studies (n?=?38,078) on 11 different VEGFi from 7901 identified citations. The risk of mortality was significantly lower among VEGFi recipients than controls (pooled RR 0.96, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.94 to 0.98, I2?=?0%, tau2?=?0; risk difference 2%). Compared to controls, VEGFi recipients had significantly higher risk of myocardial infarction (MI) (RR 3.54, 95% CI 1.61 to 7.80, I2?=?0%, tau2?=?0), arterial thrombotic events (RR 1.80, 95% CI 1.24 to 2.59, I2?=?0%, tau2?=?0); hypertension (RR 3.46, 95% CI 2.89 to 4.15, I2?=?58%, tau2?=?0.16), and new proteinuria (RR 2.51, 95% CI 1.60 to 3.94, I2?=?87%, tau2?=?0.65). The absolute risk difference was 0.8% for MI, 1% for arterial thrombotic events, 15% for hypertension and 12% for new proteinuria. Meta-regression did not suggest any statistically significant modifiers of the association between VEGFi treatment and any of the vascular events. Limitations include heterogeneity across the trials. CONCLUSIONS: VEGFi increases the risk of MI, hypertension, arterial thromboembolism and proteinuria. The absolute magnitude of the excess risk appears clinically relevant, as the number needed to harm ranges from 7 to 125. These adverse events must be weighed against the lower mortality associated with VEGFi treatment.			2014				3174
Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Association of Smokeless Tobacco and of Betel Quid without Tobacco with Incidence of Oral Cancer in South Asia and the Pacific		Gupta, B. and Johnson, N. W.				plos one	plos one	AIM: This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to critically appraised data from comparable studies leading to quantitative assessment of any independent association between use of oral smokeless tobacco in any form, of betel quid without tobacco and of areca nut with incidence of oral cancer in South Asia and the Pacific. METHODS: Studies (case control and/or cohort) were identified by searching Pub Med, CINAHL and Cochrane databases through June 2013 using the keywords oral cancer: chewing tobacco; smokeless tobacco; betel quid; betel quid without tobacco; areca nut; Asia, the Pacific and the reference lists of retrieved articles. A random effects model was used to compute adjusted summary ORRE for the main effect of these habits along with their corresponding 95% confidence intervals. To quantify the impact of between-study heterogeneity on adjusted main-effect summary ORRE, Higgins' H and I2 statistics along with their 95% uncertainty intervals were used. Funnel plots and Egger's test were used to evaluate publication bias. RESULTS: Meta-analysis of fifteen case-control studies (4,553 cases; 8,632 controls) and four cohort studies (15,342) which met our inclusion criteria showed that chewing tobacco is significantly and independently associated with an increased risk of squamous-cell carcinoma of the oral cavity (adjusted main-effect summary for case- control studies ORRE?=?7.46; 95% CI?=?5.86-9.50, P<0.001), (adjusted main-effect summary for cohort studies RR?=?5.48; 95% CI?=?2.56-11.71, P<0.001). Furthermore, meta-analysis of fifteen case control studies (4,648 cases; 7,847 controls) has shown betel quid without tobacco to have an independent positive association with oral cancer, with OR?=?2.82 (95% CI?=?2.35-3.40, P<0.001). This is presumably due to the carcinogenicity of areca nut. There was no significant publication bias. CONCLUSION: There is convincing evidence that smokeless (aka chewing) tobacco, often used as a component of betel quid, and betel quid without tobacco, are both strong and independent risk factors for oral cancer in these populations. However, studies with better separation of the types of tobacco and the ways in which it is used, and studies with sufficient power to quantify dose-response relationships are still needed.			2014				3250
Is early oral feeding after gastric cancer surgery feasible? A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Liu, X., Wang, D., Zheng, L., Mou, T., Liu, H. and Li, G.				plos one	plos one	AIM: To assess the feasibility and safety of early oral feeding (EOF) after gastrectomy for gastric cancer through a systematic review and meta-analysis based on randomized controlled trials. METHODS: A literature search in PubMed, Embase, Web of Science and Cochrane library databases was performed for eligible studies published between January 1995 and March 2014. Systematic review was carried out to identify randomized controlled trials comparing EOF and traditional postoperative oral feeding after gastric cancer surgery. Meta-analyses were performed by either a fixed effects model or a random effects model according to the heterogeneity using RevMan 5.2 software. RESULTS: Six studies remained for final analysis. Included studies were published between 2005 and 2013 reporting on a total of 454 patients. No significant differences were observed for postoperative complication (RR?=?0.95; 95%CI, 0.70 to 1.29; P?=?0.75), the tolerability of oral feeding (RR?=?0.98; 95%CI, 0.91 to 1.06; P?=?0.61), readmission rate (RR?=?1; 95%CI, 0.30 to 3.31; P?=?1.00) and incidence of anastomotic leakage (RR?=?0.31; 95%CI, 0.01 to 7.30; P?=?0.47) between two groups. EOF after gastrectomy for gastric cancer was associated with significant shorter duration of the hospital stay (WMD?=?-2.36; 95%CI, -3.37 to -1.34; P<0.0001) and time to first flatus (WMD?=?-19.94; 95%CI, -32.03 to -7.84; P?=?0.001). There were no significant differences in postoperative complication, tolerability of oral feeding, readmission rates, duration of hospital stay and time to first flatus among subgroups stratified by the time to start EOF or by partial and total gastrectomy or by laparoscopic and open surgery. CONCLUSIONS: The result of this meta-analysis showed that EOF after gastric cancer surgery seems feasible and safe, even started at the day of surgery irrespective of the extent of the gastric resection and the type of surgery. However, more prospective, well-designed multicenter RCTs with more clinical outcomes are needed for further validation.			2014				3087
Direct Oral Anticoagulants in Patients with Venous Thromboembolism and Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Vedovati, M. C., Germini, F., Agnelli, G. and Becattini, C.				chest	chest	BACKGROUND: Direct oral anticoagulants (DOAs) have been shown to be as effective and at least as safe as conventional anticoagulation for the prevention of recurrences in patients with VTE. Whether this is the case in patients with cancer-associated VTE remains undefined. METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials with the aim of assessing the efficacy and safety of DOAs in patients with VTE and cancer. MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CENTRAL were searched up to December 2013 with no language restriction. The primary outcome of the analysis was recurrent VTE. Data on major bleeding (MB) and clinically relevant nonmajor bleeding were analyzed. Data were pooled and compared by ORs and 95% CIs. RESULTS: Overall, 10 studies comparing DOAs with conventional anticoagulation for treatment of VTE including patients with cancer were included in the review. Six studies were included in the meta-analysis (two with dabigatran, two with rivaroxaban, one with edoxaban, and one with apixaban), accounting for a total of 1,132 patients. VTE recurred in 23 of 595 (3.9%) and in 32 of 537 (6.0%) patients with cancer treated with DOAs and conventional treatment, respectively (OR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.37-1.10; I2, 0%). MB occurred in 3.2% and 4.2% of patients receiving DOAs and conventional treatment, respectively (OR, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.41-1.44; I2, 0%). CONCLUSIONS: DOAs seem to be as effective and safe as conventional treatment for the prevention of VTE in patients with cancer. Further clinical trials in patients with cancer-associated VTE should be performed to confirm these results.			2015				9154
Meta-analysis of postoperative efficacy in patients receiving chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery for resectable esophageal carcinoma		Deng, J., Wang, C., Xiang, M., Liu, F., Liu, Y. and Zhao, K.				diagnostic pathology	diagnostic pathology	BACKGROUND: Many studies have demonstrated that chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery (CRTS) prolongs the 5-year survival rate of resectable esophageal carcinoma patients. However, the effect of CRTS on postoperative complications, local recurrence and distant metastasis remains controversial. We performed a systematic review of the literature and conducted a meta-analysis to assess the postoperative efficacy of CRTS compared with surgery alone (SA). METHODS: Pubmed, Web of Science and the Cochrane library Databases were used to identify published studies between 2000 and 2013 that directly compared CRTS with SA. The pooled relative risk (RR) and its corresponding 95% confidence interval (95% CI) constituted the principal measure of treatment effects. Heterogeneity was assessed by the ?2 and I2 statistic. RESULTS: The final analysis included 1930 resectable esophageal carcinoma cases from 13 randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Compared with SA, CRTS was associated with significantly decreased postoperative mortality, local recurrence and distant metastasis rates, with RR (95% CI)?=?0.64 (0.49-0.84), 0.53 (0.39-0.73), 0.82 (0.68-0.98); p?=?0.001, <0.00001, =0.03, respectively. However, there was no significant difference in postoperative complication incidence between the two groups (RR, 1.09; 95% CI, 0.96-1.24; p?=?0.18). CONCLUSIONS: CRTS significantly decreased postoperative mortality, local recurrence and distant metastasis rates compared to SA. Additionally, there were no increased postoperative complications for patients with resectable esophageal carcinoma. VIRTUAL SLIDES: The virtual slide(s) for this article can be found here: http://www.diagnosticpathology.diagnomx.eu/vs/1531519216130950.			2014				3872
Comparative efficacy of biologics as monotherapy and in combination with methotrexate on patient reported outcomes (PROs) in rheumatoid arthritis patients with an inadequate response to conventional DMARDs--a systematic review and network meta-analysis		Jansen, J. P., Buckley, F., Dejonckheere, F. and Ogale, S.				health and quality of life outcomes	health and quality of life outcomes	OBJECTIVE: To compare biologics as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate (MTX) in terms of patient reported outcomes (PROs) in RA patients with an inadequate response to conventional DMARDs (DMARD-IR). METHODS: With a systematic literature review 17 RCTs were identified that evaluated adalimumab, certolizumab pegol, etanercept, golimumab, infliximab, abatacept, anakinra or tocilizumab. Treatment effects in terms of pain (0-100 mm), patient's global assessment of disease activity (PGA; 0-100 mm), Health Assessment-Questionnaire (HAQ) disability index (DI; 0-3), and the physical component summary (PCS) of the SF36 Health Survey (0-100) at 24 weeks were combined by means of Bayesian network meta-analyses. RESULTS: With tocilizumab monotherapy, greater improvements in pain (difference?=?-11.1; (95% Credible Interval -21.3, -0.1)) and PGA (-10.3 (-20.4, 0.8)) were observed than with aTNF monotherapy. Tocilizumab was at least as efficacious as aTNF in HAQ-DI improvements (-0.16; (-0.37, 0.05)). aTNF?+?MTX (-17.9 (-23.1, -13.0) & -19.1 (-24.2, -14.4)), abatacept?+?MTX (-23.0 (-47.3, 1. 5) & -13.6 (-28.4, 2.0)) and tocilizumab?+?MTX (-16.0 (-26.3, -6.3) & -15.1 (-25.1, -5.7)) showed comparable reductions in pain and PGA relative to MTX. Efficacy of anakinra?+?MTX was much smaller as compared to other biologics. The greatest improvements in HAQ-DI relative to MTX were observed with aTNF?+?MTX (-0.30 (-0.37, -0.22)) and tocilizumab?+?MTX (-0.27 (-0.42, -0.12)), followed by abatacept?+?MTX (-0.21 (-0.37, -0.05)) and anakinra?+?MTX (-0.11 (-0.26, 0.05)). The improvements in SF36-PCS with abatacept?+?MTX, aTNF?+?MTX and tocilizumab?+?MTX were comparable. There is a >90% probability that aTNF?+?MTX results in a greater improvement in pain (-12.4), PGA (-16.1) and HAQ-DI (-0.21) than aTNF as monotherapy. Efficacy of tocilizumab?+?MTX showed comparable improvements in PROs as tocilizumab monotherapy. CONCLUSIONS: Based on a network meta-analysis involving indirect comparison of trial findings, the following observations were made for DMARD-IR patients. In monotherapy, tocilizumab was associated with a greater improvement in pain and self-reported disease activity than aTNF, and was at least as efficacious regarding functional ability. The improvements in PROs with aTNF, abatacept and tocilizumab in combination with MTX were comparable. Improvements in PROs with tocilizumab as monotherapy were similar to that of tocilizumab?+?MTX, whereas aTNF as monotherapy was likely to be less efficacious than aTNF?+?MTX.			2014				3263
Effect of treatment of obstructive sleep apnea on depressive symptoms: systematic review and meta-analysis		Povitz, M., Bolo, C. E., Heitman, S. J., Tsai, W. H., Wang, J. and James, M. T.				plos medicine	plos medicine	BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality, and decreased quality of life. Treatment with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or mandibular advancement devices (MADs) is effective for many symptoms of OSA. However, it remains controversial whether treatment with CPAP or MAD also improves depressive symptoms. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials that examined the effect of CPAP or MADs on depressive symptoms in patients with OSA. We searched Medline, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Registry of Controlled Trials, and PsycINFO from the inception of the databases until August 15, 2014, for relevant articles. In a random effects meta-analysis of 19 identified trials, CPAP treatment resulted in an improvement in depressive symptoms compared to control, but with significant heterogeneity between trials (Q statistic, p<0.001; I(2) = 71.3%, 95% CI: 54%, 82%). CPAP treatment resulted in significantly greater improvement in depressive symptoms in the two trials with a higher burden of depression at baseline (meta-regression, p<0.001). The pooled standardized mean difference (SMD) in depressive symptoms with CPAP treatment in these two trial populations with baseline depression was 2.004 (95% CI: 1.387, 2.621), compared to 0.197 (95% CI: 0.059, 0.334) for 15 trials of populations without depression at baseline. Pooled estimates of the treatment effect of CPAP were greater in parallel arm trials than in crossover trials (meta-regression, p = 0.076). Random effects meta-analysis of five trials of MADs showed a significant improvement in depressive symptoms with MADs versus controls: SMD = 0.214 (95% CI: 0.026, 0.401) without significant heterogeneity (I(2) = 0%, 95% CI: 0%, 79%). Studies were limited by the use of depressive symptom scales that have not been validated specifically in people with OSA. CONCLUSIONS: CPAP and MADs may be useful components of treatment of depressive symptoms in individuals with OSA and depression. The efficacy of CPAP and MADs compared to standard therapies for depression is unknown. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.			2014				3040
Effects of exercise modalities on arterial stiffness and wave reflection: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Ashor, A. W., Lara, J., Siervo, M., Celis-Morales, C. and Mathers, J. C.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Physical activity is associated with lower cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. However, the effects of different exercise modalities on arterial stiffness are currently unclear. Our objectives were to investigate the effects of exercise modalities (aerobic, resistance or combined) on pulse wave velocity (PWV) and augmentation index (AIx), and to determine whether the effects on these indices differed according to the participants' or exercise characteristics. METHODS: We searched the Medline, Embase and Cochrane Library databases from inception until April 2014 for randomized controlled trials lasting ? 4 weeks investigating the effects of exercise modalities on PWV and AIx in adults aged ? 18 years. RESULTS: Forty-two studies (1627 participants) were included in this analysis. Aerobic exercise improved both PWV (WMD: -0.63 m/s, 95% CI: -0.90, -0.35) and AIx (WMD:-2.63%, 95% CI: -5.25 to -0.02) significantly. Aerobic exercise training showed significantly greater reduction in brachial-ankle (WMD: -1.01 m/s, 95% CI: -1.57, -0.44) than in carotid-femoral (WMD: -0.39 m/s, 95% CI: -0.52, -0.27) PWV. Higher aerobic exercise intensity was associated with larger reductions in AIx (?: -1.55%, CI -3.09, 0.0001). In addition, aerobic exercise had a significantly larger effect in reducing PWV (WMD:-1.0 m/s, 95% CI: -1.43, -0.57) in participants with stiffer arteries (PWV ? 8 m/s). Resistance exercise had no effect on PWV and AIx. There was no significant effect of combined exercise on PWV and AIx. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that aerobic exercise improved arterial stiffness significantly and that the effect was enhanced with higher aerobic exercise intensity and in participants with greater arterial stiffness at baseline. TRIAL REGISTRATION PROSPERO: Database registration: CRD42014009744.			2014				3546
Total hip replacement for the treatment of end stage arthritis of the hip: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Tsertsvadze, A., Grove, A., Freeman, K., Court, R., Johnson, S., Connock, M., Clarke, A. and Sutcliffe, P.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Evolvements in the design, fixation methods, size, and bearing surface of implants for total hip replacement (THR) have led to a variety of options for healthcare professionals to consider. The need to determine the most optimal combinations of THR implant is warranted. This systematic review evaluated the clinical effectiveness of different types of THR used for the treatment of end stage arthritis of the hip. METHODS: A comprehensive literature search was undertaken in major health databases. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and systematic reviews published from 2008 onwards comparing different types of primary THR in patients with end stage arthritis of the hip were included. RESULTS: Fourteen RCTs and five systematic reviews were included. Patients experienced significant post-THR improvements in Harris Hip scores, but this did not differ between impact types. There was a reduced risk of implant dislocation after receiving a larger femoral head size (36 mm vs. 28 mm; RR?=?0.17, 95% CI: 0.04, 0.78) or cemented cup (vs. cementless cup; pooled odds ratio: 0.34, 95% CI: 0.13, 0.89). Recipients of cross-linked vs. conventional polyethylene cup liners experienced reduced femoral head penetration and revision. There was no impact of femoral stem fixation and cup shell design on implant survival rates. Evidence on mortality and complications (aseptic loosening, femoral fracture) was inconclusive. CONCLUSIONS: The majority of evidence was inconclusive due to poor reporting, missing data, or uncertainty in treatment estimates. The findings warrant cautious interpretation given the risk of bias (blinding, attrition), methodological limitations (small sample size, low event counts, short follow-up), and poor reporting. Long-term pragmatic RCTs are needed to allow for more definitive conclusions. Authors are encouraged to specify the minimal clinically important difference and power calculation for their primary outcome(s) as well CONSORT, PRISMA and STROBE guidelines to ensure better reporting and more reliable production and assessment of evidence.			2014				3051
Intervention strategies for improving patient adherence to follow-up in the era of mobile information technology: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Lin, H. and Wu, X.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Patient adherence to follow-up plays a key role in the medical surveillance of chronic diseases and affects the implementation of clinical research by influencing cost and validity. We previously reported a randomized controlled trial (RCT) on short message service (SMS) reminders, which significantly improved follow-up adherence in pediatric cataract treatment. METHODS: RCTs published in English that reported the impact of SMS or telephone reminders on increasing or decreasing the follow-up rate (FUR) were selected from Medline, EMBASE, PubMed, and the Cochrane Library through February 2014. The impacts of SMS and telephone reminders on the FUR of patients were systematically evaluated by meta-analysis and bias was assessed. RESULTS: We identified 13 RCTs reporting on 3276 patients with and 3402 patients without SMS reminders and 8 RCTs reporting on 2666 patients with and 3439 patients without telephone reminders. For the SMS reminders, the majority of the studies (>50%) were at low risk of bias, considering adequate sequence generation, allocation concealment, blinding, evaluation of incomplete outcome data, and lack of selective reporting. For the studies on the telephone reminders, only the evaluation of incomplete outcome data accounted for more than 50% of studies being at low risk of bias. The pooled odds ratio (OR) for the improvement of follow-up adherence in the SMS group compared with the control group was 1.76 (95% CI [1.37, 2.26]; P<0.01), and the pooled OR for the improvement of follow-up adherence in the telephone group compared with the control group was 2.09 (95% CI [1.85, 2.36]; P<0.01); both sets showed no evidence of publication bias. CONCLUSIONS: SMS and telephone reminders could both significantly improve the FUR. Telephone reminders were more effective but had a higher risk of bias than SMS reminders.			2014				3562
Effective dosing of L-carnitine in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Shang, R., Sun, Z. and Li, H.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: L-carnitine supplementation has been associated with a significant reduction in all-cause mortality, ventricular arrhythmia, and angina in the setting of acute myocardial infarction (MI). However, on account of strict homeostatic regulation of plasma L-carnitine concentrations, higher doses of L-carnitine supplementation may not provide additional therapeutic benefits. This study aims to evaluate the effects of various oral maintenance dosages of L-carnitine on all-cause mortality and cardiovascular morbidities in the setting of acute MI. METHODS: After a systematic review of several major electronic databases (PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library) up to November 2013, a meta-analysis of five controlled trials (n = 3108) was conducted to determine the effects of L-carnitine on all-cause mortality and cardiovascular morbidities in the setting of acute MI. RESULTS: The interaction test yielded no significant differences between the effects of the four daily oral maintenance dosages of L-carnitine (i.e., 2 g, 3 g, 4 g, and 6 g) on all-cause mortality (risk ratio [RR]?= 0.77, 95% CI [0.57-1.03], P = 0.08) with a statistically insignificant trend favoring the 3 g dose (RR = 0.48) over the lower 2 g dose (RR = 0.62), which was favored over the higher 4 g and 6 g doses (RR = 0.78, 0.78). There was no significant differences between the effects of the daily oral maintenance dosages of 2 g and 6 g on heart failure (RR = 0.53, 95% CI [0.25-1.13], P = 0.10), unstable angina (RR = 0.90, 95% CI [0.51-1.58], P = 0.71), or myocardial reinfarction (RR = 0.74, 95% CI [0.30-1.80], P = 0.50). CONCLUSIONS: There appears to be no significant marginal benefit in terms of all-cause mortality, heart failure, unstable angina, or myocardial reinfarction in the setting of acute MI for oral L-carnitine maintenance doses of greater or less than 3 g per day.			2014				3008
Midodrine for orthostatic hypotension and recurrent reflex syncope: A systematic review		Izcovich, A., González Malla, C., Manzotti, M., Catalano, H. N. and Guyatt, G.				neurology	neurology	OBJECTIVE: Symptomatic orthostatic hypotension (SOH) and recurrent reflex syncope (RRS) can be disabling. Midodrine has been proposed in the management of patients with these conditions but its impact on patient important outcomes remains uncertain. We performed a systematic review to evaluate the efficacy and safety of midodrine in patients with SOH and RRS. METHODS: We searched multiple electronic databases without language restriction from their inception to June 2013. We included randomized controlled trials of patients with SOH or RRS that compared treatment with midodrine against a control and reported data on patient important outcomes. We graded the quality of evidence according to the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation) approach. RESULTS: Eleven trials involving 593 patients were included in this review. Three studies addressed health-related quality of life in patients with RRS, showing improvement with midodrine: risk difference 14% (95% confidence interval [CI] -3.5 to 31.6), very low confidence. Seven studies addressed symptom improvement and provided poolable data showing improvement with midodrine in patients with SOH.: risk difference 32.8% (95% CI 13.5-48), low confidence; and RRS.: risk difference 63.3% (95% CI 47.6-68.2), very low confidence. Five studies reported syncope recurrence in patients with RRS showing improvement with midodrine: risk difference 37% (95% CI 20.8%-47.4%), moderate confidence. The most frequent side effects in the midodrine arm were pilomotor reactions (33.6%, risk ratio 4.58 [95% CI 2.03-10.37]). CONCLUSIONS: Evidence warranting low/moderate confidence suggests that midodrine improves clinical important outcomes in patients with SOH and RRS.			2014				2874
Extended duration dual antiplatelet therapy and mortality: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Elmariah, S., Mauri, L., Doros, G., Galper, B. Z., O'Neill, K. E., Steg, P. G., Kereiakes, D. J. and Yeh, R. W.				lancet	lancet	BACKGROUND: Treatment with aspirin and a P2Y12 inhibitor is commonly used in patients with cardiovascular disorders. The overall effect of such treatment on all-cause mortality is unknown. In the Dual Antiplatelet Therapy (DAPT) Study, continuation of dual antiplatelet therapy beyond 12 months after coronary stenting was associated with an unexpected increase in non-cardiovascular death. In view of the potential public health importance of these findings, we aimed to assess the effect of extended duration dual antiplatelet therapy on mortality by doing a meta-analysis of all randomised, controlled trials of treatment duration in various cardiovascular disorders. METHODS: We searched Medline, Embase, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) to identify randomised controlled trials assessing the effect of extended duration versus no or short duration dual antiplatelet therapy, published before Oct 1, 2014. We did a meta-analysis to pool results with a hierarchical Bayesian random-effects model. The primary outcomes were hazard ratios comparing rates of all-cause, cardiovascular, and non-cardiovascular death. FINDINGS: Including the DAPT Study, we identified 14 eligible trials that randomly assigned 69?644 participants to different durations of dual antiplatelet therapy. Compared with aspirin alone or short duration dual antiplatelet therapy (?6 months), continued treatment was not associated with a difference in all-cause mortality (hazard ratio [HR] 1·05, 95% credible interval [CrI] 0·96-1·19; p=0·33). Similarly, cardiovascular (1·01, 0·93-1·12; p=0·81) and non-cardiovascular mortality (1·04, 0·90-1·26; p=0·66) were no different with extended duration versus short duration dual antiplatelet therapy or aspirin alone. INTERPRETATION: Extended duration dual antiplatelet therapy was not associated with a difference in the risk of all-cause, cardiovascular, or non-cardiovascular death compared with aspirin alone or short duration dual antiplatelet therapy. FUNDING: None.			2015				9328
Comparative effectiveness of oral drug therapies for lower urinary tract symptoms due to benign prostatic hyperplasia: a systematic review and network meta-analysis		Wang, X., Wang, X., Li, S., Meng, Z., Liu, T. and Zhang, X.				plos one	plos one	INTRODUCTION: Lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) due to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) are common in elder men and a number of drugs alone or combined are clinically used for this disorder. But available studies investigating the comparative effects of different drug therapies are limited. This study was aimed to compare the efficacy of different drug therapies for LUTS/BPH with network meta-analysis. MATERIALS AND METHODS: An electronic search of PubMed, Cochrane Library and Embase was performed to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing different drug therapies for LUTS/BPH within 24 weeks. Comparative effects were calculated using Aggregate Data Drug Information System. Consistency models of network meta-analysis were created and cumulative probability was used to rank different therapies. RESULTS: A total 66 RCTs covering seven different therapies with 29384 participants were included. We found that ?-blockers (ABs) plus phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors (PDE5-Is) ranked highest in the test of IPSS total score, storage subscore and voiding subscore. The combination therapy of ABs plus 5?-reductase inhibitors was the best for increasing maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax) with a mean difference (MD) of 1.98 (95% CI, 1.12 to 2.86) as compared to placebo. ABs plus muscarinic receptor antagonists (MRAs) ranked secondly on the reduction of IPSS storage subscore, although monotherapies including MRAs showed no effect on this aspect. Additionally, PDE5-Is alone showed great effectiveness for LUTS/BPH except Qmax. CONCLUSIONS: Based on our novel findings, combination therapy, especially ABs plus PDE5-Is, is recommended for short-term treatment for LUTS/BPH. There was also evidence that PDE5-Is used alone was efficacious except on Qmax. Additionally, it should be cautious when using MRAs. However, further clinical studies are required for longer duration which considers more treatment outcomes such as disease progression, as well as basic research investigating mechanisms involving PDE5-Is and other pharmacologic agents alleviate the symptoms of LUTS/BPH.			2014				3624
The effectiveness of pilates exercise in people with chronic low back pain: a systematic review		Wells, C., Kolt, G. S., Marshall, P., Hill, B. and Bialocerkowski, A.				plos one	plos one	"OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of Pilates exercise in people with chronic low back pain (CLBP) through a systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs). DATA SOURCES: A search for RCTs was undertaken using Medical Search Terms and synonyms for ""Pilates"" and ""low back pain"" within the maximal date range of 10 databases. Databases included the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature; Cochrane Library; Medline; Physiotherapy Evidence Database; ProQuest: Health and Medical Complete, Nursing and Allied Health Source, Dissertation and Theses; Scopus; Sport Discus; Web of Science. STUDY SELECTION: Two independent reviewers were involved in the selection of evidence. To be included, relevant RCTs needed to be published in the English language. From 152 studies, 14 RCTs were included. DATA EXTRACTION: Two independent reviewers appraised the methodological quality of RCTs using the McMaster Critical Review Form for Quantitative Studies. The author(s), year of publication, and details regarding participants, Pilates exercise, comparison treatments, and outcome measures, and findings, were then extracted. DATA SYNTHESIS: The methodological quality of RCTs ranged from ""poor"" to ""excellent"". A meta-analysis of RCTs was not undertaken due to the heterogeneity of RCTs. Pilates exercise provided statistically significant improvements in pain and functional ability compared to usual care and physical activity between 4 and 15 weeks, but not at 24 weeks. There were no consistent statistically significant differences in improvements in pain and functional ability with Pilates exercise, massage therapy, or other forms of exercise at any time period. CONCLUSIONS: Pilates exercise offers greater improvements in pain and functional ability compared to usual care and physical activity in the short term. Pilates exercise offers equivalent improvements to massage therapy and other forms of exercise. Future research should explore optimal Pilates exercise designs, and whether some people with CLBP may benefit from Pilates exercise more than others."			2014				2872
Quality care outcomes following transitional care interventions for older people from hospital to home: a systematic review		Allen, J., Hutchinson, A. M., Brown, R. and Livingston, P. M.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	BACKGROUND: Provision of high quality transitional care is a challenge for health care providers in many western countries. This systematic review was conducted to (1) identify and synthesise research, using randomised control trial designs, on the quality of transitional care interventions compared with standard hospital discharge for older people with chronic illnesses, and (2) make recommendations for research and practice. METHODS: Eight databases were searched; CINAHL, Psychinfo, Medline, Proquest, Academic Search Complete, Masterfile Premier, SocIndex, Humanities and Social Sciences Collection, in addition to the Cochrane Collaboration, Joanna Briggs Institute and Google Scholar. Results were screened to identify peer reviewed journal articles reporting analysis of quality indicator outcomes in relation to a transitional care intervention involving discharge care in hospital and follow-up support in the home. Studies were limited to those published between January 1990 and May 2013. Study participants included people 60 years of age or older living in their own homes who were undergoing care transitions from hospital to home. Data relating to study characteristics and research findings were extracted from the included articles. Two reviewers independently assessed studies for risk of bias. RESULTS: Twelve articles met the inclusion criteria. Transitional care interventions reported in most studies reduced re-hospitalizations, with the exception of general practitioner and primary care nurse models. All 12 studies included outcome measures of re-hospitalization and length of stay indicating a quality focus on effectiveness, efficiency, and safety/risk. Patient satisfaction was assessed in six of the 12 studies and was mostly found to be high. Other outcomes reflecting person and family centred care were limited including those pertaining to the patient and carer experience, carer burden and support, and emotional support for older people and their carers. Limited outcome measures were reported reflecting timeliness, equity, efficiencies for community providers, and symptom management. CONCLUSIONS: Gaps in the evidence base were apparent in the quality domains of timeliness, equity, efficiencies for community providers, effectiveness/symptom management, and domains of person and family centred care. Further research that involves the person and their family/caregiver in transitional care interventions is needed.			2014				3178
Clinical Efficacy and Safety of Ezetimibe on Major Cardiovascular Endpoints: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials		Battaggia, A., Donzelli, A., Font, M., Molteni, D. and Galvano, A.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) about Ezetimibe's efficacy on patient-oriented outcomes have given discordant results. The aim of this study was to determine the net effect of Ezetimibe and of the widely marketed combination, Ezetimibe+simvastatin, on mortality and morbidity outcomes. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We searched for RCT on Ezetimibe using MEDLINE, CCTR, EMBASE, ClinicalTrials.gov databases up to December 2013, Merck and Novartis online registers, and personal communications. Two authors independently selected trials fulfilling these criteria: RCTs comparing Ezetimibe±statin or another lipid-lowering drug against placebo, or against the same lipid-lowering drug at the same dosage, with a follow-up at least 24 weeks and one or more of these outcomes: all-cause mortality, cardiovascular (CV) mortality, stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), cancer, serious adverse events (SAEs); we assessed the risk of bias using the Cochrane checklist. We extracted the data for major clinical events as a dichotomous measure, with the patient the unit of analysis. Pooled analysis was done with random and fixed effect based models. Trials comparing Ezetimibe plus a lipid-lowering drug against the same lipidlowering drug representing the net effect of Ezetimibe, showed a nonsignificant tendency toward damage for cancer, MI, stroke and SAEs. Ezetimibe+simvastatin vs. simvastatin alone showed a stronger tendency towards a higher risk for all-cause death (2.52; 0.65-9.74), CV death (3.04; 0.48-19.21), non-CV death (3.03; 0.12-73.50), MI (1.91; 0.42-8.70), stroke (2.38; 0.46-12.35), cancer (RR 11.11; 0.62-198.29), and SAEs (1.45; 0.95-2.23). Limitations include small numbers of events and inadequate power of the pooling. Trials comparing Ezetimibe+simvastatin vs placebo showed non-significant effects: MI (0.81; 0.66-1.00 p = 0.051), all-cause death (1.02; 0.95-1.09), CV death (0.91; 0.80-1.04), non-CV death (108; 0.99-1.18), stroke (0.86; 0.72-1.04), cancer (1.18; 0.80-1.74), SAEs (1.01; 0.96-1.06). CONCLUSIONS: Ezetimibe±simvastatin had inconsistent effects on important outcomes. No firm conclusions are possible, but findings indicative of damage suggest much more selective use of Ezetimibe±simvastatin.			2015				9570
"Adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy in the ""sandwich"" method for high risk endometrial cancer-a review of literature"		Bie, Y., Zhang, Z. and Wang, X.				bmc women's health	bmc women's health	"BACKGROUND: Endometrial cancer is a common female malignancy. Patients with high-risk endometrial cancer have relatively high incidence of metastasis and recurrence. Despite complete resection, patients with stage III or IV are at high risk of local or distant recurrence. Systemic adjuvant treatment includes chemotherapy and radiotherapy. But the optimal scheduling is not known. Recently proposed sequential chemo-radiotherapy as sandwich therapy for high risk endometrial cancer have yielded encouraging results. This article is to review the adjuvant chemo-radiotherapy in the ""sandwich"" method for high risk endometrial cancer to help clinicians identify the most effective adjuvant treatment for patients with high risks of it. METHODS: We used MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library and CBM databases to search the literature. RESULTS: A systematic review was made. And most data showed ""sandwich"" therapy is feasible, efficacious, well-tolerated and resulted in excellent long-term progression free and overall survival in the setting of advanced endometrial cancer. CONCLUSION: Randomized trials are necessary to compare chemo-radio therapy given in the ""sandwich"" fashion to other means of sequencing these treatment modalities. It is also necessary to define which population is best suited for ""sandwich"" adjuvant therapy."			2015				10447
Impact of renal dysfunction on mid-term outcome after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Chen, C., Zhao, Z. G., Liao, Y. B., Peng, Y., Meng, Q. T., Chai, H., Li, Q., Luo, X. L., Liu, W., Zhang, C., Chen, M. and Huang, J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: There is conflicting evidence regarding the impact of preexisting renal dysfunction (RD) on mid-term outcomes after transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) in patients with symptomatic aortic stenosis (AS). METHODS AND RESULTS: Forty-seven articles representing 32,131 patients with AS undergoing a TAVI procedure were included in this systematic review and meta-analysis. Pooled analyses were performed with both univariate and multivariate models, using a fixed or random effects method when appropriate. Compared with patients with normal renal function, mid-term mortality was significantly higher in patients with preexisting RD, as defined by the author (univariate hazard ratio [HR]: 1.69; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.50-1.90; multivariate HR: 1.47; 95% CI: 1.17-1.84), baseline estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) (univariate HR: 1.65; 95% CI: 1.47-1.86; multivariate HR: 1.46; 95% CI: 1.24-1.71), and serum creatinine (univariate HR: 1.69; 95% CI: 1.48-1.92; multivariate HR: 1.65; 95% CI: 1.36-1.99). Advanced stage of chronic kidney disease (CKD stage 3-5) was strongly related to bleeding (univariate HR in CKD stage 3: 1.30, 95% CI: 1.13-1.49; in CKD stage 4: 1.30, 95% CI: 1.04-1.62), acute kidney injure (AKI) (univariate HR in CKD stage 3: 1.28, 95% CI: 1.03-1.59; in CKD stage 4: 2.27, 95% CI: 1.74-2.96), stroke (univariate HR in CKD stage 4: 3.37, 95% CI: 1.52-7.46), and mid-term mortality (univariate HR in CKD stage 3: 1.57, 95% CI: 1.26-1.95; in CKD stage 4: 2.77, 95% CI: 2.06-3.72; in CKD stage 5: 2.64, 95% CI: 1.91-3.65) compared with CKD stage 1+2. Patients with CKD stage 4 had a higher incidence of AKI (univariate HR: 1.70, 95% CI: 1.34-2.16) and all-cause death (univariate HR: 1.60, 95% CI: 1.28-1.99) compared with those with CKD stage 3. A per unit decrease in serum creatinine was also associated with a higher mortality at mid-term follow-up (univariate HR: 1.24, 95% CI: 1.18-1.30; multivariate HR: 1.19, 95% CI: 1.08-1.30). CONCLUSIONS: Preexisting RD was associated with increased mid-term mortality after TAVI. Patients with CKD stage 4 had significantly higher incidences of peri-procedural complications and a poorer prognosis, a finding that should be factored into the clinical decision-making process regarding these patients.			2015				7845
Are Prophylactic Antibiotics Necessary for Anterior Nasal Packing in Epistaxis?		Cohn, B.				annals of emergency medicine	annals of emergency medicine	Emergency physicians must often make decisions about patient management without clear-cut data of sufficient quality to support clinical guidelines or evidence-based reviews. Topics in the Best Available Evidence section must be relevant to emergency physicians, are formally peer reviewed, and must have a sufficient literature base to draw a reasonable conclusion but not such a large literature base that a traditional evidence-based review, meta-analysis, or systematic review can be performed.			2015				10190
A Systematic Review of the Efficacy and Safety Experience Reported for Sorafenib in Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) in the Post-Approval Setting		Fishman, M. N., Tomshine, J., Fulp, W. J. and Foreman, P. K.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Sorafenib was FDA approved in 2005 for treatment of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) based on the results of the pivotal phase 3 clinical trial, TARGET (Treatment Approaches in Renal Cancer Global Evaluation Trial). Since that time, numerous clinical studies have been undertaken that substantially broaden our knowledge of the use of sorafenib for this indication. METHODS: We systematically reviewed PubMed, Web of Science, Embase, Cochrane Library, and www.clinicaltrials.gov for prospective clinical studies using single agent sorafenib in RCC and published since 2005. Primary endpoints of interest were progression-free survival (PFS) and safety. PROSPERO International prospective register of systematic reviews #CRD42014010765. RESULTS: We identified 30 studies in which 2182 patients were treated with sorafenib, including 1575 patients who participated in randomized controlled phase 3 trials. In these trials, sorafenib was administered as first-, second- or third-line treatment. Heterogeneity among trial designs and reporting of data precluded statistical comparisons among trials or with TARGET. The PFS appeared shorter in second- vs. first-line treatment, consistent with the more advanced tumor status in the second-line setting. In some trials, incidences of grade 3/4 hypertension or hand-foot skin reaction (HFSR) were more than double that seen in TARGET (4% and 6%, respectively). These variances may be attributable to increased recognition of HFSR, or potentially differences in dose adjustments, that could be consequences of increased familiarity with sorafenib usage. Several small studies enrolled exclusively Asian patients. These studies reported notably longer PFS than was observed in TARGET. However, no obvious corresponding differences in disease control rate and overall survival were seen. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, more recent experiences using sorafenib in RCC are consistent with results reported for TARGET with no marked changes of response endpoints or new safety signals observed.			2015				10002
Gastroenteritis Therapies in Developed Countries: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Freedman, S. B., Pasichnyk, D., Black, K. J., Fitzpatrick, E., Gouin, S., Milne, A., Hartling, L. and Pediatric Emergency Research Canada Gastroenteritis Study, Group				plos one	plos one	CONTEXT: Gastroenteritis remains a leading cause of childhood morbidity. OBJECTIVE: Because prior reviews have focused on isolated symptoms and studies conducted in developing countries, this study focused on interventions commonly considered for use in developed countries. Intervention specific, patient-centered outcomes were selected. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, trial registries, grey literature, and scientific meetings. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized controlled trials, conducted in developed countries, of children aged <18 years, with gastroenteritis, performed in emergency department or outpatient settings which evaluated oral rehydration therapy (ORT), antiemetics, probiotics or intravenous fluid administration rate. DATA EXTRACTION: The study was conducted in accordance with the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and the PRISMA guidelines. Data were independently extracted by multiple investigators. Analyses employed random effects models. RESULTS: 31 trials (4,444 patients) were included. ORT: Compared with intravenous rehydration, hospitalization (RR 0.80, 95%CI 0.24, 2.71) and emergency department return visits (RR 0.86, 95%CI 0.39, 1.89) were similar. Antiemetics: Fewer children administered an antiemetic required intravenous rehydration (RR 0.40, 95%CI 0.26, 0.60) While the data could not be meta-analyzed, three studies reported that ondansetron administration does increase the frequency of diarrhea. Probiotics: No studies reported on the primary outcome, three studies evaluated hospitalization within 7 days (RR 0.87, 95%CI 0.25, 2.98). Rehydration: No difference in length of stay was identified for rapid vs. standard intravenous or nasogastric rehydration. A single study found that 5% dextrose in normal saline reduced hospitalizations compared with normal saline alone (RR 0.70, 95% CI 0.53, 0.92). CONCLUSIONS: There is a paucity of patient-centered outcome evidence to support many interventions. Since ORT is a low-cost, non-invasive intervention, it should continue to be used. Routine probiotic use cannot be endorsed at this time in outpatient children with gastroenteritis. Despite some evidence that ondansetron administration increases diarrhea frequency, emergency department use leads to reductions in intravenous rehydration and hospitalization. No benefits were associated with ondansetron use following emergency department discharge.			2015				8288
Comparison of ahmed glaucoma valve implantation and trabeculectomy for glaucoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis		HaiBo, T., Xin, K., ShiHeng, L. and Lin, L.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy and safety of Ahmed glaucoma valve implantation (AGV) with trabeculectomy in the management of glaucoma patients. METHODS: A comprehensive literature search (PubMed, Embase, Google, and the Cochrane library) was performed, including a systematic review with meta-analysis of controlled clinical trials comparing AGV versus trabeculectomy. Efficacy estimates were the weighted mean differences (WMDs) for the percentage intraocular pressure reduction (IOPR %) from baseline to end-point, the reduction in glaucoma medications, and the odds ratios (ORs) for complete and qualified success rates. Safety estimates were the relative risks (RRs) for adverse events. All outcomes were reported with a 95% confidence interval (CI). Statistical analysis was performed using the RevMan 5.0 software. RESULTS: Six controlled clinical trials were included in this meta-analysis. There was no significant difference between the AGV and trabeculectomy in the IOPR% (WMD = -3.04, 95% CI: -8.36- 2.26; P = 0.26). The pooled ORs comparing AGV with trabeculectomy were 0.46 (0.22, 0.99) for the complete success rate (P = 0.05) and 0.97 (0.78-1.20) for the quantified success rate (P = 0.76). No significant difference in the reduction in glaucoma medicines was observed (WMD = 0.24; 95% CI: -0.27-0.76; P = 0.35). AGV was found to be associated with a significantly lower frequency of all adverse events (RR = 0.71; 95%CI: 1.14-0.97; p = 0.001) than trabeculectomy, while the most common complications did not differ significantly (all p> 0.05). CONCLUSION: AGV was equivalent to trabeculectomy in reducing the IOP, the number of glaucoma medications, success rates, and rates of the most common complications. However, AGV was associated with a significantly lower frequency of overall adverse events.			2015				6973
Urate lowering therapy to improve renal outcomes in patients with chronic kidney disease: systematic review and meta-analysis		Kanji, T., Gandhi, M., Clase, C. M. and Yang, R.				bmc nephrology	bmc nephrology	BACKGROUND: Hyperuricemia may contribute to renal injury. We do not know whether use of treatments that lower urate reduce the progression of chronic kidney disease (CKD) and cardiovascular disease. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials to assess the benefits and risks of treatments that lower urate in patients with stages 3-5 CKD. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL, Web of Science and trial registers for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) without language restriction. Two authors independently screened articles, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. Data obtained included serum uric acid, serum creatinine or other estimates of glomerular filtration rate, incidence of end-stage renal disease (ESRD), systolic and diastolic blood pressure, proteinuria, cardiovascular disease and adverse events. RESULTS: From the 5497 citations screened, 19 RCTs enrolling 992 participants met our inclusion criteria. Given significant heterogeneity in duration of follow-up and study comparators, only trials greater than 3 months comparing allopurinol and inactive control were meta-analyzed using random effects models. Pooled estimate for eGFR was in favour of allopurinol with a mean difference (MD) of 3.2 ml/min/1.73 m(2), 95% CI 0.16-6.2 ml/min/1.73 m(2), p?=?0.039 and this was consistent with results for serum creatinine. Statistically significant reductions in serum uric acid, systolic and diastolic blood pressure were found, favouring allopurinol. There were insufficient data on adverse events, incidence of ESRD and cardiovascular disease for analysis. CONCLUSIONS: Adequately powered RCTs are needed to establish whether treatments that lower urate have beneficial renal and cardiovascular effects.			2015				7751
Efavirenz-Based Regimens in Antiretroviral-Naive HIV-Infected Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials		Kryst, J., Kawalec, P. and Pilc, A.				plos one	plos one	Efavirenz, a non-nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) is one of the most commonly prescribed antiretroviral drugs. The present article provides a systematic overview and meta-analysis of clinical trials comparing efavirenz and other active drugs currently recommended for treatment of HIV-infected, antiretroviral-naive patients. Electronic databases (Pubmed, Embase, the Cochrane Library, Trip Database) were searched up till 23 December 2013 for randomized controlled clinical trials published as a peer-reviewed papers, and concerning efavirenz-based regimens used as initial treatment for HIV infection. Thirty-four studies were included in the systematic review, while twenty-six trials were suitable for the meta-analysis. Efavirenz was compared with drugs from four different classes: NNRTIs other than efavirenz (nevirapine or rilpivirine), integrase strand transfer inhibitors (InSTIs), ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitors (bPI) and chemokine (C-C motif) receptor 5 (CCR5) antagonists (maraviroc), all of them were added to the background regimen. Results of the current meta-analysis showed that efavirenz-based regimens were equally effective as other recommended regimens based on NNRTI, ritonavir-boosted PI or CCR5 antagonist in terms of efficacy outcomes (disease progression and/or death, plasma viral HIV RNA <50 copies/ml) while statistically significant more patients treated with InSTI achieved plasma viral load <50 copies/ml at week 48. In comparison with both InSTI-based and CCR5-based therapy, efavirenz-based treatment was associated with a higher risk of therapy discontinuation due to adverse events. However, comparisons of efevirenz-based treatment with InSTI-based and CCR5-based therapy were based on a limited number of trials, therefore, conclusions from these two comparisons must be confirmed in further reliable randomized controlled studies. Results of our meta-analysis support the present clinical guidelines for antiretroviral-naive, HIV-infected patients, in which efavirenz is one of the most preferred regimens in the analyzed population. Beneficial safety profile of InSTI-based and CCR5-based therapy over efavirenz-based treatment needs further studies.			2015				6348
Risk of community-acquired pneumonia with outpatient proton-pump inhibitor therapy: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Lambert, A. A., Lam, J. O., Paik, J. J., Ugarte-Gil, C., Drummond, M. B. and Crowell, T. A.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) are among the most frequently prescribed medications. Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is a common cause of morbidity, mortality and healthcare spending. Some studies suggest an increased risk of CAP among PPI users. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to determine the association between outpatient PPI therapy and risk of CAP in adults. METHODS: We conducted systematic searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Scopus and Web of Science on February 3, 2014. Case-control studies, case-crossover, cohort studies and randomized controlled trials reporting outpatient PPI exposure and CAP diagnosis for patients ?18 years old were eligible. Our primary outcome was the association between CAP and PPI therapy. A secondary outcome examined the risk of hospitalization for CAP and subgroup analyses evaluated the association between PPI use and CAP among patients of different age groups, by different PPI doses, and by different durations of PPI therapy. RESULTS: Systematic review of 33 studies was performed, of which 26 studies were included in the meta-analysis. These 26 studies included 226,769 cases of CAP among 6,351,656 participants. We observed a pooled risk of CAP with ambulatory PPI therapy of 1.49 (95% CI 1.16, 1.92; I2 99.2%). This risk was increased during the first month of therapy (OR 2.10; 95% CI 1.39, 3.16), regardless of PPI dose or patient age. PPI therapy also increased risk for hospitalization for CAP (OR 1.61; 95% CI: 1.12, 2.31). DISCUSSION: Outpatient PPI use is associated with a 1.5-fold increased risk of CAP, with the highest risk within the first 30 days after initiation of therapy. Providers should be aware of this risk when considering PPI use, especially in cases where alternative regimens may be available or the benefits of PPI use are uncertain.			2015				5923
Comparison of the Postoperative Incidence Rate of Capsular Contracture among Different Breast Implants: A Cumulative Meta-Analysis		Liu, X., Zhou, L., Pan, F., Gao, Y., Yuan, X. and Fan, D.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: A large number of clinical studies have reported that the different materials used in breast implants were a possible cause of the different incidence rates of capsular contracture observed in patients after implantation. However, this theory lacks comprehensive support from evidence-based medicine, and considerable controversy remains. OBJECTIVES: In this study, a cumulative systematic review examined breast augmentation that used implants with textured or smooth surfaces to analyze the effects of these two types of implants on the occurrence of postoperative capsular contracture. METHODS: We conducted a comprehensive search of literature databases, including PubMed and EMBASE, for clinical reports on the incidence of capsular contracture after the implantation of breast prostheses. We performed a cumulative meta-analysis on the incidence of capsular contracture in order from small to large sample sizes and conducted subgroup analyses according to the prosthetic material used, the implant pocket placement, the incision type and the duration of follow-up. Relative risks (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were used as the final pooled statistics. RESULTS: This meta-analysis included 16 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and two retrospective studies. The cumulative comparison of textured and smooth breast implants showed statistical significance at 2.13 (95% CI, 1.18-3.86) when the fourth study was entered into the analysis. With the inclusion of more reports, the final results indicated that smooth breast implants were more likely to be associated with capsular contracture, with statistical significance at 3.10 (95% CI, 2.23-4.33). In the subgroup analyses, the subgroups based on implant materials included the silicone implant group and the saline implant group, with significant pooled statistical levels of 4.05 (95% CI, 1.97-8.31) and 3.12 (95% CI, 2.19-4.42), respectively. According to implant pocket placement, a subglandular group and a submuscular group were included in the analyses, and only the subglandular group had a statistically significant pooled result of 3.59 (95% CI, 2.43-5.30). Four subgroups were included in the analyses according to incision type: the inframammary incision group, the periareolar incision group, the transaxillary incision group and the mastectomy incision group. Among these groups, only the pooled results of the inframammary and mastectomy incision groups were statistically significant, at 2.82 (95% CI, 1.30-6.11) and 2.30 (95% CI, 1.17-4.50), respectively. Three follow-up duration subgroups were included in the analyses: the one-year group, the two- to three-year group and the ?five-year group. These subgroups had statistically significant results of 4.67 (95% CI, 2.35-9.28), 3.42 (95% CI, 2.26-5.16) and 2.71 (95% CI, 1.64-4.49), respectively. CONCLUSION: In mammaplasty, the use of textured implants reduces the incidence of postoperative capsular contracture. Differences in implant pocket placement and incision type are also likely to affect the incidence of capsular contracture; however, this conclusion awaits further study.			2015				11201
Comparing new treatments for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis - a network meta-analysis		Loveman, E., Copley, V. R., Scott, D. A., Colquitt, J. L., Clegg, A. J. and O'Reilly, K. M.				bmc pulmonary medicine	bmc pulmonary medicine	BACKGROUND: The treatment landscape for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a devastating lung disease, is changing. To investigate the effectiveness of treatments for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis we undertook a systematic review, network meta-analysis and indirect comparison. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE and The Cochrane library for relevant studies. Randomised controlled trials of pirfenidone, nintedanib or N-acetylcysteine were eligible. Predefined processes for selecting references, extracting data and assessing study quality were applied. Our network meta-analysis of published data used a fixed effect model. For forced vital capacity measures a standardised mean difference approach was used and converted to odds ratios for interpretation. RESULTS: Of 1076 references, 67 were retrieved and 11 studies included. Studies were of reasonable size, populations were similar, and the overall quality was good. Only two treatments, pirfenidone (odds ratio 0.62, 95% credible interval 0.52, 0.74) and nintedanib (0.41, 95% credible interval 0.34, 0.51) produced a statistically significant slowing in the rate of forced vital capacity decline compared with placebo. In an indirect comparison, results indicate that nintedanib is statistically significantly better than pirfenidone in slowing forced vital capacity decline (odds ratio 0.67, 95% credible interval 0.51, 0.88). Results were stable in scenario analysis and random effects models. Indirect comparisons of mortality were not statistically significant between nintedanib and pirfenidone. CONCLUSIONS: Two treatments show beneficial effects and when compared indirectly nintedanib appears to have superior benefit on forced vital capacity. Limitations to indirect comparisons should be considered when interpreting these results, however, our findings can be useful to inform treatment decisions.			2015				11003
A Systematic Review of Interventions Addressing Adherence to Anti-Diabetic Medications in Patients with Type 2 Diabetes-Impact on Adherence		Sapkota, S., Brien, J. A., Greenfield, J. and Aslani, P.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The global prevalence of diabetes is increasing. Medications are a recommended strategy to control hyperglycaemia. However, patient adherence can be variable, impacting health outcomes. A range of interventions for patients with type 2 diabetes have focused on improving treatment adherence. This review evaluates the impact of these interventions on adherence to anti-diabetic medications and focuses on the methods and tools used to measure adherence. METHOD: Medline, Embase, CINAHL, IPA, PUBmed, and PsychINFO were searched for relevant articles published in 2000-2013, using appropriate search terms. RESULTS: Fifty two studies addressing adherence to anti-diabetic medications in patients with type 2 diabetes met the inclusion criteria and were reviewed. Each study was assessed for research design, method(s) used for measuring medication adherence, and impact of intervention on medication adherence and glycaemic control. Fourteen studies were published in 2000-2009 and 38 in 2010-2013. Twenty two interventions led to improvements in adherence to anti-diabetic medications, while only nine improved both medication adherence and glycaemic control. A single strategy could not be identified which would be guaranteed to improve anti-diabetic medication adherence consistently. Nonetheless, most interventions were successful in influencing one or more of the outcomes assessed, indicating the usefulness of these interventions under certain circumstances. Self-report, particularly the Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities questionnaire was the most commonly used tool to assess medication adherence, although other self-report tools were used in more recent studies. Overall, there was a slight increase in the number of studies that employed multiple methods to assess medication adherence in studies conducted after 2008. CONCLUSION: The diversity of interventions and adherence measurements prevented a meta-analysis of the impact of interventions on adherence to therapy, highlighting the need for more consistency in methods in the area of adherence research. Whilst effective interventions were identified, it is not possible to conclude on an effective intervention that can be generalised to all patients with type 2 diabetes.			2015				9626
Periodontal treatment for preventing adverse pregnancy outcomes: a meta- and trial sequential analysis		Schwendicke, F., Karimbux, N., Allareddy, V. and Gluud, C.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVES: Periodontal treatment might reduce adverse pregnancy outcomes. The efficacy of periodontal treatment to prevent preterm birth, low birth weight, and perinatal mortality was evaluated using meta-analysis and trial sequential analysis. METHODS: An existing systematic review was updated and meta-analyses performed. Risk of bias, heterogeneity, and publication bias were evaluated, and meta-regression performed. Subgroup analysis was used to compare different studies with low and high risk of bias and different populations, i.e., risk groups. Trial sequential analysis was used to assess risk of random errors. RESULTS: Thirteen randomized clinical trials evaluating 6283 pregnant women were meta-analyzed. Four and nine trials had low and high risk of bias, respectively. Overall, periodontal treatment had no significant effect on preterm birth (odds ratio [95% confidence interval] 0.79 [0.57-1.10]) or low birth weight (0.69 [0.43-1.13]). Trial sequential analysis demonstrated that futility was not reached for any of the outcomes. For populations with moderate occurrence (<20%) of preterm birth or low birth weight, periodontal treatment was not efficacious for any of the outcomes, and trial sequential analyses indicated that further trials might be futile. For populations with high occurrence (?20%) of preterm birth and low birth weight, periodontal treatment seemed to reduce the risk of preterm birth (0.42 [0.24-0.73]) and low birth weight (0.32 [0.15-0.67]), but trial sequential analyses showed that firm evidence was not reached. Periodontal treatment did not significantly affect perinatal mortality, and firm evidence was not reached. Risk of bias, but not publication bias or patients' age modified the effect estimates. CONCLUSIONS: Providing periodontal treatment to pregnant women could potentially reduce the risks of perinatal outcomes, especially in mothers with high risks. Conclusive evidence could not be reached due to risks of bias, risks of random errors, and unclear effects of confounding. Further randomized clinical trials are required.			2015				10921
Research Report. Effect of Taping on Spinal Pain and Disability: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Trials		Vanti, Carla, Bertozzi, Lucia, Gardenghi, Ivan, Turoni, Francesca, Guccione, Andrew A. and Pillastrini, Paolo				physical therapy	physical therapy	Background. Taping is a widely used therapeutic tool for the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders, nevertheless its effectiveness is still uncertain. Purpose. The purpose of this study was to conduct a current review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) concerning the effects of elastic and nonelastic taping on spinal pain and disability. Data Sources. MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE, PEDro, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Scopus, IS1 Web of Knowledge, and SPORTDiscus databases were searched. Study Selection. All published RCTs on symptomatic adults with a diagnosis of specific or nonspecific spinal pain, myofascial pain syndrome, or whiplash-associated disorders (WAD) were considered. Data Extraction. Two reviewers independently selected the studies and extracted the results. The quality of individual studies was assessed using the PEDro scale, and the evidence was assessed using GRADE criteria. Data Synthesis. Eight RCTs were included. Meta-analysis of 4 RCTs on low back pain demonstrated that elastic taping does not significantly reduce pain or disability immediately posttreatment, with a standardized mean difference of 0.31 (95% confidence interval =  0.64, 0.02) and 0.23 (95% confidence interval=  0.49, 0.03), respectively. Results from single trials indicated that both elastic and nonelastic taping are not better than placebo or no treatment on spinal disability. Positive results were found only for elastic taping and only for short-term pain reduction in WAD or specific neck pain. Generally, the effect sizes were very small or not clinically relevant, and all results were supported by low-quality evidence. Limitations. The paucity of studies does not permit us to draw any final conclusions. Conclusion. Although different types of taping were investigated, the results of this systematic review did not show any firm support for their effectiveness.			2015				7466
The Dose-Dependent Effect of Nesiritide on Renal Function in Patients with Acute Decompensated Heart Failure: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials		Xiong, B., Wang, C., Yao, Y., Huang, Y., Tan, J., Cao, Y., Zou, Y. and Huang, J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Conflicting renal effects of nesiritide have been reported in patients with acute decompensated heart failure. To answer this controversy, we performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials to evaluate the influence of nesiritide on renal function in patients with acute decompensated heart failure. METHODS: Articles were obtained from PubMed, Medline, Cochrane Library and reference review. Randomized controlled studies that investigated the effects of continuous infusion of nesiritide on renal function in adult patients with acute decompensated heart failure were included and analyzed. Fixed-effect model was used to estimate relative risk (RR) and weight mean difference (WMD). The quality assessment of each study, subgroup, sensitivity, and publication bias analyses were performed. RESULTS: Fifteen randomized controlled trials were eligible for inclusion. Most of included studies had relatively high quality and no publication bias was found. Overall, compared to control therapies, nesiritide might increase the risk of worsening renal function in patients with acute decompensated heart failure (RR 1.08, 95% CI 1.01-1.15, P = 0.023). In subgroup analysis, high-dose nesiritide strongly associated with renal dysfunction (RR 1.54, 95% CI 1.19-2.00, P = 0.001), but no statistical differences were observed in standard-dose (RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.98-1.12, P = 0.213), low-dose groups (RR 1.01, 95% CI 0.74-1.37, P = 0.968) and same results were identified in the subgroup analysis of placebo controlled trials. Peak mean change of serum creatinine from baseline was no significant difference (WMD -2.54, 95% CI -5.76-0.67, P = 0.121). CONCLUSIONS: In our meta-analysis, nesiritide may have a dose-dependent effect on renal function in patients with acute decompensated heart failure. High-dose nesiritide is likely to increase the risk of worsening renal function, but standard-dose and low-dose nesiritide probably have no impact on renal function. These findings could be helpful to optimize the use of nesiritide in clinical practice.			2015				9957
Effectiveness of traditional chinese medicine as an adjunct therapy for Parkinson's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Zhang, G., Xiong, N., Zhang, Z., Liu, L., Huang, J., Yang, J., Wu, J., Lin, Z. and Wang, T.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Idiopathic Parkinson disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease that seriously hinders limb activities and affects patients' lives. We performed a meta-analysis aiming to systematically review and quantitatively synthesize the efficacy and safety of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) as an adjunct therapy for clinical PD patients. METHODS: An electronic search was conducted in PubMed, Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Chinese Scientific Journals Database and Wanfang data to identify randomized trials evaluating TCM adjuvant therapy versus conventional treatment. The change from baseline of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale score (UPDRS) was used to estimate the effectiveness of the therapies. RESULTS: Twenty-seven articles involving 2314 patients from 1999 to 2013 were included. Potentially marked improvements were shown in UPDRS I (SMD 0.68, 95%CI 0.38, 0.98), II (WMD 2.41, 95%CI 1.66, 2.62), III (WMD 2.45, 95%CI 2.03, 2.86), IV (WMD 0.32, 95%CI 0.15, 049) and I-IV total scores (WMD 6.18, 95%CI 5.06, 7.31) in patients with TCM plus dopamine replacement therapy (DRT) compared to DRT alone. Acupuncture add-on therapy was markedly beneficial for improving the UPDRS I-IV total score of PD patients (WMD 10.96, 95%CI 5.85, 16.07). However, TCM monotherapy did not improve the score. The effectiveness seemed to be more obvious in PD patients with longer adjunct durations. TCM adjuvant therapy was generally safe and well tolerated. CONCLUSIONS: Although the data were limited by methodological flaws in many studies, the evidence indicates the potential superiority of TCM as an alternative therapeutic for PD treatment and justifies further high-quality studies.			2015				9567
A systematic review for the antidepressant effects of sleep deprivation with repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation		Tang, Q., Li, G., Wang, A., Liu, T., Feng, S., Guo, Z., Chen, H., He, B., McClure, M. A., Ou, J., Xing, G. and Mu, Q.				bmc psychiatry	bmc psychiatry	"BACKGROUND: Sleep deprivation (SD) and repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) have been commonly used to treat depression. Recent studies suggest that co-therapy with rTMS and SD may produce better therapeutic effects than either therapy alone. Therefore, this study was to review the current findings to determine if rTMS can augment the therapeutic effects of SD on depression. METHODS: Embase, JSTOR, Medline, PubMed, ScienceDirect, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were searched for clinical studies published between January 1985 and March 2015 using the search term ""rTMS/repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation AND sleep deprivation AND depress*"". Only randomized and sham-controlled trials (RCTs) involving the combined use of rTMS and SD in depression patients were included in this systematic review. The scores of the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression were extracted as primary outcome measures. RESULTS: Three RCTs with 72 patients that met the inclusion criteria were included for the systematic review. One of the trials reported skewed data and was described alone. The other two studies, which involved 30 patients in the experimental group (SD + active rTMS) and 22 patients in the control group (SD + sham rTMS), reported normally distributed data. The primary outcome measures showed different results among the three publications: two of which showed great difference between the experimental and the control subjects, and the other one showed non-significant antidepressant effect of rTMS on SD. In addition, two of the included studies reported secondary outcome measures with Clinical Global Impression Rating Scale and a self-reported well-being scale which presented good improvement for the depressive patients in the experiment group when compared with the control. The follow-up assessments in two studies indicated maintained results with the immediate measurements. CONCLUSIONS: From this study, an overview of the publications concerning the combined use of rTMS and SD is presented, which provides a direction for future research of therapies for depression. More studies are needed to confirm whether there is an augmentative antidepressant effect of rTMS on SD."			2015				5942
Probiotics for prevention of necrotizing enterocolitis in preterm infants: systematic review and meta-analysis		Aceti, A., Gori, D., Barone, G., Callegari, M. L., Di Mauro, A., Fantini, M. P., Indrio, F., Maggio, L., Meneghin, F., Morelli, L., Zuccotti, G., Corvaglia, L. and Italian Society of, Neonatology				italian journal of pediatrics	italian journal of pediatrics	Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) affects predominantly preterm infants, who have specific risk factors leading to intestinal dysbiosis. Manipulations of gut microbiota through probiotics have the potential to prevent NEC.The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to evaluate the effect of probiotics for NEC prevention in preterm infants, with a focus on specific strains, microbiological strength of currently available studies, and high-risk populations.PubMed and the Cochrane Library were searched for trials published within 4th February 2015. Randomized-controlled trials reporting on NEC and involving preterm infants who were given probiotics in the first month of life were included in the systematic review.Twenty-six studies were suitable for inclusion in the meta-analysis.Data about study design, population, intervention and outcome were extracted and summarized independently by two observers. Study quality and quality of evidence were also evaluated.Fixed-effects models were used and random-effects models where significant heterogeneity was present. Subgroup analyses were performed to explore sources of heterogeneity among studies. Results were expresses as risk ratio (RR) with 95 % confidence interval (CI).The main outcome was incidence of NEC stage ?2 according to Bell's criteria.Probiotics prevented NEC in preterm infants (RR 0.47 [95 % CI 0.36-0.60], p?<?0.00001). Strain-specific sub-meta-analyses showed a significant effect for Bifidobacteria (RR 0.24 [95 % CI 0.10-0.54], p?=?0.0006) and for probiotic mixtures (RR 0.39 [95 % CI 0.27-0.56], p?<?0.00001). Probiotics prevented NEC in very-low-birth-weight infants (RR 0.48 [95 % CI 0.37-0.62], p?<?0.00001); there were insufficient data for extremely-low-birth-weight infants. The majority of studies presented severe or moderate microbiological flaws.Probiotics had an overall preventive effect on NEC in preterm infants. However, there are still insufficient data on the specific probiotic strain to be used and on the effect of probiotics in high-risk populations such as extremely-low-birth-weight infants, before a widespread use of these products can be recommended.			2015				6170
Effect of Probiotics on Glycemic Control: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized, Controlled Trials		Ruan, Y., Sun, J., He, J., Chen, F., Chen, R. and Chen, H.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Previous clinical trials indicate that probiotic consumption may improve blood glucose control, however, results from randomized trials on glycemic control have been inconsistent. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of probiotics on glycemic control in a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. DATA SOURCES: PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Clinicaltrial.gov through October 2014. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Two independent reviewers extracted relevant data and assessed study quality and risk of bias. Data were pooled using a random-effects model and expressed as mean differences (MD) with 95% CI. Heterogeneity was assessed (Cochran Q-statistic) and quantified (I2). RESULTS: Seventeen randomized controlled trials were included, in which 17 fasting blood glucose (n = 1105), 11 fasting plasma insulin (n = 788), 8 homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (n = 635) comparisons were reported. Probiotic consumption, compared with placebo, significantly reduced fasting glucose (MD = -0.31 mmol/L; 95% CI 0.56, 0.06; p = 0.02), fasting plasma insulin (MD = -1.29 ?U/mL; 95% CI -2.17, -0.41; p = 0.004), and HOMA-IR (MD = 0.48; 95% CI -0.83, -0.13; p = 0.007). CONCLUSIONS: Probiotic consumption may improve glycemic control modestly. Modification of gut microbiota by probiotic supplementation may be a method for preventing and control hyperglycemia in clinical practice.			2015				6556
Nebulized Hypertonic Saline for Acute Bronchiolitis: A Systematic Review		Zhang, L., Mendoza-Sassi, R. A., Klassen, T. P. and Wainwright, C.				pediatrics	pediatrics	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The mainstay of treatment for acute bronchiolitis remains supportive care. The objective of this study was to assess the efficacy and safety of nebulized hypertonic saline (HS) in infants with acute bronchiolitis. METHODS: Data sources included PubMed and the Virtual Health Library of the Latin American and Caribbean Center on Health Sciences Information up to May 2015. Studies selected were randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials comparing nebulized HS with 0.9% saline or standard treatment. RESULTS: We included 24 trials involving 3209 patients, 1706 of whom received HS. Hospitalized patients treated with nebulized HS had a significantly shorter length of stay compared with those receiving 0.9% saline or standard care (15 trials involving 1956 patients; mean difference [MD] -0.45 days, 95% confidence interval [CI] -0.82 to -0.08). The HS group also had a significantly lower posttreatment clinical score in the first 3 days of admission (5 trials involving 404 inpatients; day 1: MD -0.99, 95% CI -1.48 to -0.50; day 2: MD -1.45, 95% CI -2.06 to -0.85; day 3: MD -1.44, 95% CI -1.78 to -1.11). Nebulized HS reduced the risk of hospitalization by 20% compared with 0.9% saline among outpatients (7 trials involving 951 patients; risk ratio 0.80, 95% CI 0.67-0.96). No significant adverse events related to HS inhalation were reported. The quality of evidence is moderate due to inconsistency in results between trials and study limitations (risk of bias). CONCLUSIONS: Nebulized HS is a safe and potentially effective treatment of infants with acute bronchiolitis.			2015				8378
The clinical and cost effectiveness of group art therapy for people with non-psychotic mental health disorders: a systematic review and cost-effectiveness analysis		Uttley, L., Stevenson, M., Scope, A., Rawdin, A. and Sutton, A.				bmc psychiatry	bmc psychiatry	BACKGROUND: The majority of mental health problems are non-psychotic (e.g., depression, anxiety, and phobias). For some people, art therapy may be a more acceptable alternative form of psychological therapy than standard forms of treatment, such as talking therapies. This study was part of a health technology assessment commissioned by the National Institute for Health Research, UK and aimed to systematically appraise the clinical and cost-effective evidence for art therapy for people with non-psychotic mental health disorders. METHODS: Comprehensive literature searches for studies examining art therapy in populations with non-psychotic mental health disorders were performed in May 2013. A quantitative systematic review of clinical effectiveness and a systematic review of studies evaluating the cost-effectiveness of group art therapy were conducted. RESULTS: Eleven randomised controlled trials were included (533 patients). Meta-analysis was not possible due to clinical heterogeneity and insufficient comparable data on outcome measures across studies. The control groups varied between studies but included: no treatment/wait-list, attention placebo controls and psychological therapy comparators. Art therapy was associated with significant positive changes relative to the control group in mental health symptoms in 7 of the 11 studies. A de novo model was constructed and populated with data identified from the clinical review. Scenario analyses were conducted allowing comparisons of group art therapy with wait-list control and group art therapy with group verbal therapy. Group art-therapy appeared cost-effective compared with wait-list control with high certainty although generalisability to the target population was unclear; group verbal therapy appeared more cost-effective than art therapy but there was considerable uncertainty and a sizeable probability that art therapy was more cost effective. CONCLUSIONS: From the limited available evidence art therapy was associated with positive effects compared with control in a number of studies in patients with different clinical profiles. The included trials were generally of poor quality and are therefore likely to be at high risk of bias. Art therapy appeared to be cost-effective versus wait-list but further studies are needed to confirm this finding in the target population. There was insufficient evidence to make an informed comparison of the cost-effectiveness of group art therapy with group verbal therapy. TRIAL REGISTRATION: HTA project no. 12/27/16; PROSPERO registration no. CRD42013003957.			2015				7922
Comparing the effectiveness and safety between triple antiplatelet therapy and dual antiplatelet therapy in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients after coronary stents implantation: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Bundhun, P. K., Qin, T. and Chen, M. H.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: Since antiplatelet therapy in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients is very important after intracoronary stenting, and because the most commonly used therapies have been the dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) consisting of aspirin and clopidogrel and the triple antiplatelet therapy (TAPT) consisting of aspirin, clopidogrel and cilostazol, we aim to compare the effectiveness and safety between triple antiplatelet therapy and dual antiplatelet therapy in T2DM patients. METHODS: Systematic literature search was done from the databases of PubMed, Cochrane, Embase, China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) and WanFang. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the effectiveness and safety between triple therapy and dual therapy in T2DM patients after coronary stents placement were included. Endpoints included major adverse cardiac effects (MACEs), target lesion revascularization (TLR), target vessel revascularization (TVR), death, stent thrombosis, bleeding and adverse drug reactions during a 9-12 months period, as well as platelet activities. RESULTS: Four studies including 1005 patients reporting the adverse clinical outcomes and six studies including 519 patients reporting the platelet activities, with a total of 1524 patients have been analyzed in this meta-analysis. The pooling analysis shows that TAPT has significantly decreased the occurrence of MACEs (RR: 0.55; 95 % CI: 0.36-0.86, P?=?0.009), TLR (RR 0.41; 95 % CI: 0.21-0.80, P?=?0.008), TVR (RR 0.55; 95 % CI: 0.34-0.88, P?=?0.01) and the overall incidence of Death/ Myocardial Infarction (MI)/TVR (RR 0.54; 95 % CI: 0.31-0.94, P?=?0.03) during this 9 to 12 months follow up period after stents implantation. Stent thrombosis was almost similar in both groups. Bleeding seemed to favor DAPT but the result was not statistically significant. Platelet aggregation, platelet reactivity index (PRI) and platelet reactivity unit (PRU) were also reduced with Weight Mean Difference (WMD) of (-13.80; 95 % CI: -17.03 to -10.56, P?<?0.00001), (-22.87; 95 % CI: -23.66 to -22.07, P?<?0.00001) and (-44.17; 95 % CI: -58.56 to -29.77, P?<?0.00001) respectively. CONCLUSION: Since MACEs have been significantly decreased in the triple group, TAPT appears to be more effective than DAPT in T2DM patients after intracoronary stenting. No significant difference in stent thrombosis and bleeding risks between these 2 groups shows TAPT to be almost as safe as DAPT in these diabetic patients.			2015				10181
A Bayesian network meta-analysis: Comparing the clinical effectiveness of local corticosteroid injections using different treatment strategies for carpal tunnel syndrome		Chen, P. C., Chuang, C. H., Tu, Y. K., Bai, C. H., Chen, C. F. and Liaw, M.				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	BACKGROUND: Local corticosteroid injections are commonly used to improve the short-term symptomatic severity and the functional status of the hands affected by carpal tunnel syndrome. We conducted a systematic review and Bayesian network-meta-analysis to compare the clinical effectiveness of local corticosteroid injections using different injection approaches. METHODS: Electronic literature in Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, and other sources were searched to identify clinical studies comparing different injection approaches with each other or placebo for carpal tunnel syndrome. Two review authors conducted selection of studies, data extraction, and assessment of risk of bias independently. Random-effects models were used to conduct the pairwise meta-analysis and the Bayesian network meta-analysis. RESULTS: Overall, 10 studies with 633 patients were included in the systematic review. Among the injection approaches, local corticosteroid injections using the ultrasound-guided in-plane injection (Ulnar-I) approach was the best treatment strategy for clinical response (median OR versus placebo 128.30, 95 % CrI 9.76 to 2299.00), change in symptom severity scale (median MD versus placebo -1.16, 95 % CrI -1.95 to -0.38) , and change in functional status scale (median MD versus placebo -0.74, 95 % CrI -2.00 to 0.52) at short-term follow-up period in the network meta-analysis. Local corticosteroid injections using other injection approaches were better than placebo for clinical response (for the PI approach, median OR versus placebo 8.85, 95 % CrI 3.00 to 33.15; for the DI approach, median OR versus placebo 7.00, 95 % CrI 0.53 to 118.80) , change in symptom severity scale (for the Ulnar-O approach, median MD versus placebo -0.78, 95 % CrI -1.43 to -0.16; for the PI approach, median MD versus placebo -0.58, 95 % CrI -0.95 to -0.22), and change in functional status scale (for the Ulnar-O approach, median MD versus placebo -0.63, 95 % CrI -1.67 to 0.43; for the PI approach, median MD versus placebo -0.46, 95 % CrI -1.11 to 0.21) at short-term follow-up period. The quality of studies is good. CONCLUSIONS: According to our analyses, the ultrasound-guided in-plane injection (Ulnar-I) approach was the most effective treatment among the injection approaches for carpal tunnel syndrome.			2015				10459
Effectiveness of Mindfulness-based interventions on physiological and psychological complications in adults with diabetes: A systematic review		Noordali, F., Cumming, J. and Thompson, J. L.				journal of health psychology	journal of health psychology	This systematic review aimed to examine the effectiveness of Mindfulness-based interventions in reducing diabetes-related physiological and psychological symptoms in adults with types 1 and 2 diabetes. Five databases were systematically searched. A total of 11 studies satisfied the inclusion criteria. Mindfulness-based intervention effectiveness for physiological outcomes (glycaemic control and blood pressure) was mixed. Mindfulness-based interventions appear to have psychological benefits reducing depression, anxiety and distress symptoms across several studies. Studies' short-term follow-up periods may not allow sufficient time to observe physiological changes or illustrate Mindfulness-based interventions' potential long-term efficacy. More long-term studies that include a consistent, standardised set of outcome measures are required.			2017				4262
Endoscopic and Open Release Similarly Safe for the Treatment of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome. A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Vasiliadis, H. S., Nikolakopoulou, A., Shrier, I., Lunn, M. P., Brassington, R., Scholten, R. J. and Salanti, G.				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: The Endoscopic Release of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (ECTR) is a minimal invasive approach for the treatment of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome. There is scepticism regarding the safety of this technique, based on the assumption that this is a rather ""blind"" procedure and on the high number of severe complications that have been reported in the literature. PURPOSE: To evaluate whether there is evidence supporting a higher risk after ECTR in comparison to the conventional open release. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE (January 1966 to November 2013), EMBASE (January 1980 to November 2013), the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Specialized Register (November 2013) and CENTRAL (2013, issue 11 in The Cochrane Library). We hand-searched reference lists of included studies. We included all randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials (e.g. study using alternation, date of birth, or case record number) that compare any ECTR with any OCTR technique. Safety was assessed by the incidence of major, minor and total number of complications, recurrences, and re-operations.The total time needed before return to work or to return to daily activities was also assessed. We synthesized data using a random-effects meta-analysis in STATA. We conducted a sensitivity analysis for rare events using binomial likelihood. We judged the conclusiveness of meta-analysis calculating the conditional power of meta-analysis. CONCLUSIONS: ECTR is associated with less time off work or with daily activities. The assessment of major complications, reoperations and recurrence of symptoms does not favor either of the interventions. There is an uncertain advantage of ECTR with respect to total minor complications (more transient paresthesia but fewer skin-related complications). Future studies are unlikely to alter these findings because of the rarity of the outcome. The effect of a learning curve might be responsible for reduced recurrences and reoperations with ECTR in studies that are more recent, although formal statistical analysis failed to provide evidence for such an association. Level of evidence: I."			2015				9533
Placebo Devices as Effective Control Methods in Acupuncture Clinical Trials: A Systematic Review		Zhang, C. S., Tan, H. Y., Zhang, G. S., Zhang, A. L., Xue, C. C. and Xie, Y. M.				plos one	plos one	While the use of acupuncture has been recognised by the World Health Organisation, its efficacy for many of the common clinical conditions is still undergoing validation through randomised controlled trials (RCTs). A credible placebo control for such RCTs to enable meaningful evaluation of its efficacy is to be established. While several non-penetrating acupuncture placebo devices, namely the Streitberger, the Park and the Takakura Devices, have been developed and used in RCTs, their suitability as inert placebo controls needs to be rigorously determined. This article systematically reviews these devices as placebo interventions. Electronic searches were conducted on four English and two Chinese databases from their inceptions to July 2014; hand searches of relevant references were also conducted. RCTs, in English or Chinese language, comparing acupuncture with one of the aforementioned devices as the control intervention on human participants with any clinical condition and evaluating clinically related outcomes were included. Thirty-six studies were included for qualitative analysis while 14 were in the meta-analysis. The meta-analysis does not support the notion of either the Streitberger or the Park Device being inert control interventions while none of the studies involving the Takakura Device was included in the meta-analysis. Sixteen studies reported the occurrence of adverse events, with no significant difference between verum and placebo acupuncture. Author-reported blinding credibility showed that participant blinding was successful in most cases; however, when blinding index was calculated, only one study, which utilised the Park Device, seemed to have an ideal blinding scenario. Although the blinding index could not be calculated for the Takakura Device, it was the only device reported to enable practitioner blinding. There are limitations with each of the placebo devices and more rigorous studies are needed to further evaluate their effects and blinding credibility.			2015				8811
Hypertonic saline (HS) for acute bronchiolitis: Systematic review and meta-analysis		Maguire, C., Cantrill, H., Hind, D., Bradburn, M. and Everard, M. L.				bmc pulmonary medicine	bmc pulmonary medicine	"BACKGROUND: Acute bronchiolitis is the commonest cause of hospitalisation in infancy. Currently management consists of supportive care and oxygen. A Cochrane review concluded that, ""nebulised 3 % saline may significantly reduce the length of hospital stay"". We conducted a systematic review of controlled trials of nebulised hypertonic saline (HS) for infants hospitalised with primary acute bronchiolitis. METHODS: Searches to January 2015 involved: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials; Ovid MEDLINE; Embase; Google Scholar; Web of Science; and, a variety of trials registers. We hand searched Chest, Paediatrics and Journal of Paediatrics on 14 January 2015. Reference lists of eligible trial publications were checked. Randomised or quasi-randomised trials which compared HS versus either normal saline (+/- adjunct treatment) or no treatment were included. Eligible studies involved children less than 2 years old hospitalised due to the first episode of acute bronchiolitis. Two reviewers extracted data to calculate mean differences (MD) and 95 % Confidence Intervals (CIs) for length of hospital stay (LoS-primary outcome), Clinical Severity Score (CSS) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs). Meta-analysis was undertaken using a fixed effect model, supplemented with additional sensitivity analyses. We investigated statistical heterogeneity using I(2). Risk of bias, within and between studies, was assessed using the Cochrane tool, an outcome reporting bias checklist and a funnel plot. RESULTS: Fifteen trials were included in the systematic review (n?=?1922), HS reduced mean LoS by 0.36, (95 % CI 0.50 to 0.22) days, but with considerable heterogeneity (I(2)?=?78 %) and sensitivity to alternative analysis methods. A reduction in CSS was observed where assessed [n?=?516; MD -1.36, CI -1.52, -1.20]. One trial reported one possible intervention related SAE, no other studies described intervention related SAEs. CONCLUSIONS: There is disparity between the overall combined effect on LoS as compared with the negative results from the largest and most precise trials. Together with high levels of heterogeneity, this means that neither individual trials nor pooled estimates provide a firm evidence-base for routine use of HS in inpatient acute bronchiolitis."			2015				5550
Interventions to Improve Adherence in Patients with Immune-Mediated Inflammatory Disorders: A Systematic Review		Depont, F., Berenbaum, F., Filippi, J., Le Maitre, M., Nataf, H., Paul, C., Peyrin-Biroulet, L. and Thibout, E.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: In patients with immune-mediated inflammatory disorders, poor adherence to medication is associated with increased healthcare costs, decreased patient satisfaction, reduced quality of life and unfavorable treatment outcomes. OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of different interventions on medication adherence in patients with immune-mediated inflammatory disorders. DESIGN: Systematic review. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE and Cochrane Library. STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTING STUDIES: Included studies were clinical trials and observational studies in adult outpatients treated for psoriasis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, spondyloarthritis, psoriatic arthritis or multiple sclerosis. STUDY APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS METHODS: Intervention approaches were classified into four categories: educational, behavioral, cognitive behavioral, and multicomponent interventions. The risk of bias/study limitations of each study was assessed using the GRADE system. RESULTS: Fifteen studies (14 clinical trials and one observational study) met eligibility criteria and enrolled a total of 1958 patients. Forty percent of the studies (6/15) was conducted in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, half (7/15) in rheumatoid arthritis patients, one in psoriasis patients and one in multiple sclerosis patients. Seven out of 15 interventions were classified as multicomponent, four as educational, two as behavioral and two as cognitive behavioral. Nine studies, of which five were multicomponent interventions, had no serious limitations according to GRADE criteria. Nine out of 15 interventions showed an improvement of adherence: three multicomponent interventions in inflammatory bowel disease; one intervention of each category in rheumatoid arthritis; one multicomponent in psoriasis and one multicomponent in multiple sclerosis. CONCLUSION: The assessment of interventions designed for increasing medication adherence in IMID is rare in the literature and their methodological quality may be improved in upcoming studies. Nonetheless, multicomponent interventions showed the strongest evidence for promoting adherence in patients with IMID.			2015				6949
Extended Anticoagulant and Aspirin Treatment for the Secondary Prevention of Thromboembolic Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Marik, P. E. and Cavallazzi, R.				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: Patients who have had an unprovoked deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolus (PE) are at a high risk for recurrent venous thromboembolism (VTE). Extended ""life-long"" anticoagulation has been recommended in these patients. However, the risk benefit ratio of this approach is controversial and the role of the direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) and aspirin is unclear. Furthermore, in some patients with a ""weak provoking factor"" there is clinical equipoise regarding continuation or cessation of anticoagulant therapy after treatment of the acute VTE event. OBJECTIVE: A systematic review and meta-analysis to determine the risks (major bleeding) and benefits (recurrent VTE and mortality) of extended anticoagulation with vitamin k antagonists (VKA), DOACs and aspirin in patients with an unprovoked VTE and in those patients with clinical equipoise regarding continuation or cessation of anticoagulant therapy. In addition, we sought to determine the risk of recurrent VTE events once extended anti-thrombotic therapy was discontinued. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials, citation review of relevant primary and review articles. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized placebo-controlled trials (RCTs) that compared the risk of recurrent VTE in patients with an unprovoked DVT or PE who had been treated for at least 3 months with a VKA or a DOAC and were then randomized to receive an oral anti-thrombotic agent or placebo for at least 6 additional months. We included studies that included patients in whom clinical equipoise existed regarding the continuation or cessation of anticoagulant therapy. DATA EXTRACTION: Independent extraction of articles by both authors using predefined data fields, including study quality indicators. Data were abstracted on study size, study setting, initial event (DVT or PE), percentage of patients where the initial VTE event was unprovoked, the number of recurrent VTE events, major bleeds and mortality during the period of extended anticoagulation in the active treatment and placebo arms. In addition, we recorded the event rate once extended treatment was stopped. Meta-analytic techniques were used to summarize the data. Studies were grouped according to the type of anti-thrombotic agent. DATA SYNTHESIS: Seven studies which enrolled 6778 patients met our inclusion criteria; two studies evaluated the extended use of Coumadin, three studies evaluated a DOAC and two studies evaluated the use of aspirin. The duration of followup varied from 6 to 37 months. In the Coumadin and aspirin studies 100% of the randomized patients had an unprovoked VTE, while in the DOAC studies between 73.5% and 93.2% of the VTE events were unprovoked. In the control group recurrent VTE occurred in 9.7% of patients compared to 2.8% in the active treatment group (OR 0.21; 95% CI 0.11-0.42, p<0.0001). VKA, DOACs and aspirin significantly reduced the risk of recurrent VTE, with VKA and DOACs being significantly more effective than aspirin. Major bleeding events occurred in 12 patients in the control group (0.4%) and 25 of 3815 (0.6%) patients in the active treatment group (OR 1.64; 95% CI 0.69-3.90, NS). There were 39 (1.3%) deaths in control patients and 33 (0.9%) deaths in the anti-thrombotic group during the treatment period (OR 0.73; 95% CI 0.40-1.33, NS). Patients whose initial VTE event was a PE were more likely to have a recurrent PE than a DVT. The annualized event rate after discontinuation of extended antithrombotic therapy was 4.4% in the control group and 6.5% in the active treatment arm. CONCLUSIONS: VKA, DOACs and aspirin significantly reduced the risk of recurrent VTE, with DOACs and VKA being more effective than aspirin. The decision regarding life-long anticoagulation following an unprovoked DVT or PE should depend on the patients' risk for recurrent PE as well as the patients' values and preferences."			2015				7819
Comparison of first-line chemotherapy based on irinotecan or other drugs to treat non-small cell lung cancer in stage IIIB/IV: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Yang, X. Q., Li, C. Y., Xu, M. F., Zhao, H. and Wang, D.				bmc cancer	bmc cancer	BACKGROUND: To compare the efficacy and toxicity of irinotecan-based chemotherapy (IBC) and non-irinotecan-based chemotherapy (NIBC) as first-line treatment for stage IIIB/IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). METHODS: PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), abstracts from the annual meetings of ASCO and the ESMO up to 2014 were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared IBC with NIBC. Data on overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) were meta-analyzed to provide hazard ratios (HRs), while data on overall response rate (ORR) and frequencies of toxicity were meta-analyzed to provide relative risk ratios (RR). RESULTS: Seven RCTs (6 RCTs from Asian population and 1 from non-Asian population) involving 1473 patients with previously untreated stage IIIB/IV NSCLC were included in the meta-analysis. IBC and NIBC were associated with similar ORR (RR: 1.08, 95 %CI: 0.94 to 1.23, p?=?0.30), OS (HR: 0.97, 95 %CI: 0.88 to 1.07, p?=?0.56), and PFS (HR: 1.02, 95 %CI: 0.97 to 1.08, p?=?0.38). However, the subgroups between Asian and non-Asian patients differed significantly in OS (HR: 0.94 vs 1.87, p?=?0.007). There was no significant difference for hematological toxicity (RR: 0.79, 95 %CI: 0.60 to 1.04, p?=?0.09) and significant worse for non-hematological toxicity (RR: 2.28, 95 %CI: 1.60 to3.24, p?<?0.001), when IBC compared to NIBC. CONCLUSIONS: As the available evidence suggests that IBC and NIBC are equivalent in terms of ORR, PFS, OS, at least in Asian patients, we recommend that IBC be considered as a first-line treatment in Asian patients with stage IIIB/IV NSCLC. However, the non-hematological toxicity of IBC must be considered.			2015				10103
Shenmai injection as an adjuvant treatment for chronic cor pulmonale heart failure: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Shi, L., Xie, Y., Liao, X., Chai, Y. and Luo, Y.				bmc complementary and alternative medicine	bmc complementary and alternative medicine	BACKGROUND: Shenmai injection (SM), as a traditional Chinese medicine injection, is widely used for chronic cor pulmonale heart failure in mainland China. It is essential to systematically assess the efficacy and safety of SM as an adjuvant treatment for chronic cor pulmonale heart failure. METHODS: Eight English and Chinese electronic databases were searched, from inception to December 2014, to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of SM for chronic cor pulmonale heart failure. The Cochrane Risk of Bias tool was used to evaluate the methodological quality of eligible studies. Meta-analysis was performed by Review Manager 5.2. RESULTS: Twenty-seven RCTs with 2045 participants were identified. The methodological quality of the included studies was generally low. Only one trial reported data on death. None of the included trials reported quality of life. The meta-analysis indicated that compared to conventional treatment, the combination of SM and conventional treatment was more effective in terms of the New York Heart Association classification (RR, 1.26; 95 % CI, 1.20-1.32; P?<?0.00001), Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (MD, 11.33; 95 % CI, 8.59-14.07; p?<?0.00001), partial pressure of oxygen (MD, 1.00; 95 % CI, 0.64-1.36; P?<?0.00001) and partial pressure of carbon dioxide (MD, 0.83; 95 % CI, 0.58-1.08; p?<?0.00001). In addition, two trials reported that SM plus conventional treatment was superior to the conventional treatment alone to reduce B-type natriuretic peptide. No serious adverse drug events or reactions were reported. CONCLUSIONS: SM plus conventional treatment appeared to be effective and relatively safe for chronic cor pulmonale heart failure. However, due to the generally low methodological quality and small sample size, this review didn't find evidence to support routine use of SM as an adjuvant treatment for chronic cor pulmonale heart failure.			2015				10092
Intermittent energy restriction and weight loss: a systematic review		Davis, C. S., Clarke, R. E., Coulter, S. N., Rounsefell, K. N., Walker, R. E., Rauch, C. E., Huggins, C. E. and Ryan, L.				european journal of clinical nutrition	european journal of clinical nutrition	BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Intermittent energy restriction (IER) is an eating pattern of regular daily periods of restricted energy intake followed by periods of unrestricted energy intake. This is gaining prominence as an alternative weight-loss strategy to daily energy restriction (DER). The aim of this systematic review was to determine the effectiveness of IER on weight loss in overweight and obese adults and compare this with DER. SUBJECTS/METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted using the CINAHL, Embase, Medline, PsycINFO, Cochrane and Scopus databases. Eight studies that assigned overweight or obese adults to IER or to a DER 'control' were deemed eligible for inclusion. RESULTS: All studies reported significant weight loss for IER groups. Average weight loss was approximately 0.2-0.8?kg per week. IER resulted in comparable weight loss to DER when overall energy restriction remained similar between diets. The majority of studies that reported body composition outcomes have shown equal efficacy for fat mass, fat-free mass and waist circumference. CONCLUSIONS: Weight loss was achieved in overweight and obese adults following IER and this loss was comparable to a DER diet. IER may be an effective alternative strategy for health practitioners to promote weight loss for selected overweight and obese people.European Journal of Clinical Nutrition advance online publication, 25 November 2015; doi:10.1038/ejcn.2015.195.			2016				5495
ALPPS Procedure for Extended Liver Resections: A Single Centre Experience and a Systematic Review		Vivarelli, M., Vincenzi, P., Montalti, R., Fava, G., Tavio, M., Coletta, M., Vecchi, A., Nicolini, D., Agostini, A., Ali Ahmed, E., Giovagnoni, A. and Mocchegiani, F.				plos one	plos one	AIM: To report a single-centre experience with the novel Associating Liver Partition and Portal vein ligation for Staged hepatectomy (ALPPS) technique and systematically review the related literature. METHODS: Since January 2013, patients with extended primary or secondary liver tumors whose future liver remnant (FLR) was considered too small to allow hepatic resection were prospectively assessed for the ALPPS procedure. A systematic literature search was performed using PubMed, Scopus and the Cochrane Library Central. RESULTS: Until July 2014 ALPPS was completed in 9 patients whose mean age was 60±8 years. Indications for surgical resection were metastases from colorectal cancer in 3 cases, perihilar cholangiocarcinoma in 3 cases, intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma in 2 cases and hepatocellular carcinoma without chronic liver disease in 1 case. The calculated FLR volume was 289±122 mL (21.1±5.5%) before ALPPS-1 and 528±121 mL (32.2±5.7%) before ALLPS-2 (p<0.001). The increase in FLR between the two procedures was 96±47% (range: 24-160%, p<0.001). Additional interventions were performed in 4 cases: 3 patients underwent Roux-en-Y hepaticojejunostomy, and one case underwent wedge resection of a residual tumor in the FLR. The average time between the first and second step of the procedure was 10.8±2.9 days. The average hospital stay was 24.1±13.3 days. There was 1 postoperative death due to hepatic failure in the oldest patient of this series who had a perihilar cholangiocarcinoma and concomitant liver fibrosis; 11 complications occurred in 6 patients, 4 of whom had grade III or above disease. After a mean follow-up of 17.1±8.5 months, the overall survival was 89% at 3-6 and 12 months. The recurrence-free survival was 100%, 87.5% and 75% at 3-6-12 months respectively. The literature search yielded 148 articles, of which 22 articles published between 2012 and 2015 were included in this systematic review. CONCLUSION: The ALPPS technique effectively increased the resectability of otherwise inoperable liver tumors. The postoperative morbidity in our series was high in accordance with the data from the systematic review. Age, liver fibrosis and presence of biliary stenting were predisposing factors for postoperative morbidity and mortality.			2015				5998
A Systematic Review of Interventions to Change Staff Care Practices in Order to Improve Resident Outcomes in Nursing Homes		Low, L. F., Fletcher, J., Goodenough, B., Jeon, Y. H., Etherton-Beer, C., MacAndrew, M. and Beattie, E.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: We systematically reviewed interventions that attempted to change staff practice to improve long-term care resident outcomes. METHODS: Studies met criteria if they used a control group, included 6 or more nursing home units and quantitatively assessed staff behavior or resident outcomes. Intervention components were coded as including education material, training, audit and feedback, monitoring, champions, team meetings, policy or procedures and organizational restructure. RESULTS: Sixty-three unique studies were broadly grouped according to clinical domain-oral health (3 studies), hygiene and infection control (3 studies), nutrition (2 studies), nursing home acquired pneumonia (2 studies), depression (2 studies) appropriate prescribing (7 studies), reduction of physical restraints (3 studies), management of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (6 studies), falls reduction and prevention (11 studies), quality improvement (9 studies), philosophy of care (10 studies) and other (5 studies). No single intervention component, combination of, or increased number of components was associated with greater likelihood of positive outcomes. Studies with positive outcomes for residents also tended to change staff behavior, however changing staff behavior did not necessarily improve resident outcomes. Studies targeting specific care tasks (e.g. oral care, physical restraints) were more likely to produce positive outcomes than those requiring global practice changes (e.g. care philosophy). Studies using intervention theories were more likely to be successful. Program logic was rarely articulated, so it was often unclear whether there was a coherent connection between the intervention components and measured outcomes. Many studies reported barriers relating to staff (e.g. turnover, high workload, attitudes) or organizational factors (e.g. funding, resources, logistics). CONCLUSION: Changing staff practice in nursing homes is possible but complex. Interventionists should consider barriers and feasibility of program components to impact on each intended outcome.			2015				9561
Mortality and drug therapy in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a network meta-analysis		Scott, D. A., Woods, B., Thompson, J. C., Clark, J. F., Hawkins, N., Chambers, M., Celli, B. R. and Calverley, P.				bmc pulmonary medicine	bmc pulmonary medicine	BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence suggests pharmacological treatments may impact on overall survival in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) patients. Individual clinical trials are rarely powered to detect mortality differences between treatments and may not include all treatment options relevant to healthcare decision makers. METHODS: A systematic review was conducted to identify RCTs of COPD treatments reporting mortality; evidence was synthesised using network meta-analysis (NMA). The analysis included 40 RCTs; a quantitative indirect comparison between 14 treatments using data from 55,220 patients was conducted. RESULTS: The analysis reported two treatments reducing all-cause mortality; salmeterol/fluticasone propionate combination (SFC) was associated with a reduction in mortality versus placebo in the fixed effects (HR 0.79; 95 % Crl 0.67, 0.94) but not the random effects model (0.79; 0.56, 1.09). Indacaterol was associated with a reduction in mortality versus placebo in fixed (0.28; 0.08 to 0.85) and random effects (0.29; 0.08, 0.89) models. Mean estimates and credible intervals for hazard ratios for indacaterol versus placebo are based on a small number of events; estimates may change when the results of future studies are included. These results were maintained across a variety of assumptions and provide evidence that SFC and indacaterol may lead to improved survival in COPD patients. CONCLUSION: Results of an NMA of COPD treatments suggest that SFC and indacaterol may reduce mortality. Further research is warranted to strengthen this conclusion.			2015				10750
Sign Language and Spoken Language for Children With Hearing Loss: A Systematic Review		Fitzpatrick, E. M., Hamel, C., Stevens, A., Pratt, M., Moher, D., Doucet, S. P., Neuss, D., Bernstein, A. and Na, E.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: Permanent hearing loss affects 1 to 3 per 1000 children and interferes with typical communication development. Early detection through newborn hearing screening and hearing technology provide most children with the option of spoken language acquisition. However, no consensus exists on optimal interventions for spoken language development. OBJECTIVE: To conduct a systematic review of the effectiveness of early sign and oral language intervention compared with oral language intervention only for children with permanent hearing loss. DATA SOURCES: An a priori protocol was developed. Electronic databases (eg, Medline, Embase, CINAHL) from 1995 to June 2013 and gray literature sources were searched. Studies in English and French were included. STUDY SELECTION: Two reviewers screened potentially relevant articles. DATA EXTRACTION: Outcomes of interest were measures of auditory, vocabulary, language, and speech production skills. All data collection and risk of bias assessments were completed and then verified by a second person. Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) was used to judge the strength of evidence. RESULTS: Eleven cohort studies metinclusion criteria, of which 8 included only children with severe to profound hearing loss with cochlear implants. Language development was the most frequently reported outcome. Other reported outcomes included speech and speech perception. LIMITATIONS: Several measures and metrics were reported across studies, and descriptions of interventions were sometimes unclear. CONCLUSIONS: Very limited, and hence insufficient, high-quality evidence exists to determine whethersign language in combination with oral language is more effective than oral language therapy alone. More research is needed to supplement the evidence base.			2016				6575
Surgical Outcomes for Minimally Invasive vs Open Transforaminal Lumbar Interbody Fusion: An Updated Systematic Review and Meta-analysis		Khan, N. R., Clark, A. J., Lee, S. L., Venable, G. T., Rossi, N. B. and Foley, K. T.				neurosurgery	neurosurgery	BACKGROUND: Minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF)-or MI-TLIF-has been increasing in prevalence compared with open TLIF (O-TLIF) procedures. The use of MI-TLIF is an evolving technique with conflicting reports in the literature about outcomes. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the impact of MI-TLIF in comparison with O-TLIF for early and late outcomes by using the Visual Analog Scale for back pain (VAS-back) and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI). Secondary end points include blood loss, operative time, radiation exposure, length of stay, fusion rates, and complications between the 2 procedures. METHODS: During August 2014, a systematic literature search was performed identifying 987 articles. Of these, 30 met inclusion criteria. A random-effects meta-analysis was performed by using both pooled and subset analyses based on study type. RESULTS: Our meta-analysis demonstrated that MI-TLIF reduced blood loss (P < .001), length of stay (P < .001), and complications (P = .001) but increased radiation exposure (P < .001). No differences were found in fusion rate (P = .61) and operative time (P = .34). A decrease in late VAS-back scores was demonstrated for MI TLIF (P < .001), but no differences were found in early VAS-back, early ODI, and late ODI. CONCLUSION: MI-TLIF is associated with reduced blood loss, decreased length of stay, decreased complication rates, and increased radiation exposure. The rates of fusion and operative time are similar between MI-TLIF and O-TLIF. Differences in long-term outcomes in MI-TLIF vs O-TLIF are inconclusive and require more research, particularly in the form of large, multi-institutional prospective randomized controlled trials. ABBREVIATIONS: CI, confidence intervalMCID, minimal clinically important differenceMI-TLIF, minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusionODI, Oswestry Disability IndexO-TLIF, open transforaminal lumbar interbody fusionVAS, Visual Analog Scale.			2015				9514
Surgical versus medical management of patients with acute ischemic mitral regurgitation: a systematic review		Alajaji, W. A., Akl, E. A., Farha, A., Jaber, W. A. and AlJaroudi, W. A.				bmc research notes	bmc research notes	"AIMS: Acute ischemic mitral regurgitation (MR) is seen in patients with myocardial infarction and is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The optimal treatment strategy of this condition however, is not well established. The aim of this manuscript is to conduct a systematic review of the medical literature to assess the relative benefits and harms of mitral valve surgery with medical therapy versus medical management alone for patients with acute ischemic MR of at least moderate severity. METHODS: We performed a literature search in MEDLINE, Embase.com, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. We restricted the search to randomized clinical trials comparing surgical to medical management of acute ischemic MR. Exclusion criteria included non-randomized trials, trials enrolling patients with non-ischemic MR, and trials excluding acute ischemic MR. The primary outcomes were short-term and long term mortality. Two reviewers (WA, WA) screened titles and abstracts of identified citations independently and in duplicate using calibration exercises and standardized screening forms. RESULTS: The search strategy identified 887 citations (137 were duplicates and removed). Of the 750 titles, 709 were excluded (519 were non-relevant and 190 were review articles and case reports). Of the 41 remaining abstracts, 37 were retrospective cohorts and four excluded acute MR, leaving no eligible study for analysis. An ongoing study that is being conducted at Southern Illinois University entitled by ""Medical Versus Surgical Management of Patients With Moderate Mitral Regurgitation Following Percutaneous Coronary Intervention for Myocardial Infarction: A Pilot Prospective Randomized Trial"" was identified; however, it was just withdrawn after failing to enroll patients during 4 years. CONCLUSION: This is an empty systematic review that identified no published randomized trials for the management of acute MR complicating acute MI. The only ongoing randomized study that was identified was just withdrawn after failing to enroll patients. There is an urgent need for conducing proper randomized trials in order to guide informed decision making in the treatment of acute ischemic MR. PROSPERO registration number CRD42013005843."			2015				5943
Effectiveness of hand hygiene interventions in reducing illness absence among children in educational settings: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Willmott, M., Nicholson, A., Busse, H., MacArthur, G. J., Brookes, S. and Campbell, R.				archives of disease in childhood	archives of disease in childhood	OBJECTIVE: To undertake a systematic review and meta-analysis to establish the effectiveness of handwashing in reducing absence and/or the spread of respiratory tract (RT) and/or gastrointestinal (GI) infection among school-aged children and/or staff in educational settings. DESIGN: Randomised-controlled trials (RCTs). SETTING: Schools and other settings with a formal educational component in any country. PATIENTS: Children aged 3-11?years, and/or staff working with them. INTERVENTION: Interventions with a hand hygiene component. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence of RT or GI infections or symptoms related to such infections; absenteeism; laboratory results of RT and/or GI infections. RESULTS: Eighteen cluster RCTs were identified; 13 school-based, 5 in child day care facilities or preschools. Studies were heterogeneous and had significant quality issues including small numbers of clusters and participants and inadequate randomisation. Individual study results suggest interventions may reduce children's absence, RT infection incidence and symptoms, and laboratory confirmed influenza-like illness. Evidence of impact on GI infection or symptoms was equivocal. CONCLUSIONS: Studies are generally not well executed or reported. Despite updating existing systematic reviews and identifying new studies, evidence of the effect of hand hygiene interventions on infection incidence in educational settings is mostly equivocal but they may decrease RT infection among children. These results update and add to knowledge about this crucial public health issue in key settings with a vulnerable population. More robust, well reported cluster RCTs which learn from existing studies, are required.			2016				7242
Appropriate initial antibiotic therapy in hospitalized patients with gram-negative infections: systematic review and meta-analysis		Raman, G., Avendano, E., Berger, S. and Menon, V.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: The rapid global spread of multi-resistant bacteria and loss of antibiotic effectiveness increases the risk of initial inappropriate antibiotic therapy (IAT) and poses a serious threat to patient safety. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of published studies to summarize the effect of appropriate antibiotic therapy (AAT) or IAT against gram-negative bacterial infections in the hospital setting. METHODS: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane CENTRAL databases were searched until May 2014 to identify English-language studies examining use of AAT or IAT in hospitalized patients with Gram-negative pathogens. Outcomes of interest included mortality, clinical cure, cost, and length of stay. Citations and eligible full-text articles were screened in duplicate. Random effect models meta-analysis was used. RESULTS: Fifty-seven studies in 60 publications were eligible. AAT was associated with lower risk of mortality (unadjusted summary odds ratio [OR] 0.38, 95 % confidence interval [CI] 0.30-0.47, 39 studies, 5809 patients) and treatment failure (OR 0.22, 95 % CI 0.14-0.35; 3 studies, 283 patients). Conversely, IAT increased risk of mortality (unadjusted summary OR 2.66, 95 % CI 2.12-3.35; 39 studies, 5809 patients). In meta-analyses of adjusted data, AAT was associated with lower risk of mortality (adjusted summary OR 0.43, 95 % CI 0.23-0.83; 6 studies, 1409 patients). Conversely, IAT increased risk of mortality (adjusted summary OR 3.30, 95 % CI 2.42-4.49; 16 studies, 2493 patients). A limited number of studies suggested higher cost and longer hospital stay with IAT. There was considerable heterogeneity in the definition of AAT or IAT, pathogens studied, and outcomes assessed. DISCUSSION: Using a large set of studies we found that IAT is associated with a number of serious consequences,including an increased risk of hospital mortality. Infections caused by drug-resistant, Gram-negative organisms represent a considerable financial burden to healthcare systems due to the increased costs associated with the resources required to manage the infection, particularly longer hospital stays. However, there were insufficient data that evaluated AAT for the outcome of costs among patients with nosocomialGram-negative infections. CONCLUSIONS: IAT in hospitalized patients with Gram-negative infections is associated with adverse outcomes. Technological advances for rapid diagnostics to facilitate AAT along with antimicrobial stewardship, surveillance, infection control, and prevention is needed.			2015				7199
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention after Fibrinolysis for ST-Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Patients: An Updated Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Liu, F., Guo, Q., Xie, G., Zhang, H., Wu, Y. and Yang, L.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), fibrinolysis and the combination of both methods are current therapeutic options for patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). METHODS: We searched PubMed, EMBASE, Google scholar and Cochrane Controlled Trials Register for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the efficacy and safety of PCI after fibrinolysis within 24 hours, which was compared with primary PCI alone and ischemia-guided or delayed PCI. Meta-analysis was conducted using Review Manager 5.30 following the methods described by the Cochrane library. RESULTS: A total of 16 studies including 10,034 patients were enrolled. As compared with primary PCI alone group, the short-term mortality (5.8% vs 4.5%, RR 1.29, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.00-1.65) and re-infarction rate (4.1% vs 2.7%, RR 1.46, 95%CI 1.05-2.03) were higher in the immediate PCI group (median/mean time ? 2 h after fibrinolysis). However, the short-term mortality and re-infarction rate showed no statistically significant differences in the early PCI group (2-24 hours after fibrinolysis). The rate of major bleeding events was higher both in the immediate PCI (6.3% vs 4.4%, RR 1.43, 95%CI 1.11-1.85) and the early PCI group (6.4% vs 4.4%, RR 1.46, 95%CI 1.03-2.06) as compared with primary PCI alone group. As compared with ischemia-guided or delayed PCI, early PCI was associated with significantly reduced re-infarction (2.4% vs 4.0%, RR 0.61, 95%CI 0.41-0.92) and recurrent ischemia (1.5% vs 5.3%, RR 0.29, 95%CI 0.12-0.70) at short-term. And the reduced re-infarction rate was also observed at long-term. CONCLUSIONS: Early PCI after fibrinolysis, with a relatively broader time for PCI preparation, can bring the similar effects with primary PCI alone and is better than ischemia-guided or delayed PCI in STEMI patients with symptom onset < 12 h who cannot receive timely PCI. However, immediate PCI after fibrinolysis is detrimental.			2015				9563
Laparoscopy versus laparotomy for the management of early stage cervical cancer		Wang, Y. Z., Deng, L., Xu, H. C., Zhang, Y. and Liang, Z. Q.				bmc cancer	bmc cancer	BACKGROUND: The possible advantages of laparoscopic radical hysterectomy (LRH) versus open radical hysterectomy (RH) have not been well reviewed systematically. The aim of this study was to systematically review the comparative effectiveness between LRH and RH in the treatment of cervical cancer based on the evaluation of the Perioperative outcomes, oncological clearance, complications and long-term outcomes. METHODS: The systematic review was conducted by searching PubMed, MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library and BIOSIS databases. All original studies that compared LRH with RH were included for critical appraisal. Data were pooled and analyzed. RESULTS: A total of twelve original studies that compared LRH (n?=?754) with RH (n?=?785) in patients with cervical cancer fulfilled quality criteria were selected for review and meta-analysis. LRH compared with RH was associated with a significant reduction of intraoperative blood loss (weighted mean difference?=?-268.4 mL (95 % CI -361.6, -175.1; p?<?0.01), a reduced risk of postoperative complications (OR?=?0.46; 95 % CI 0.34-0.63) and shorter hospital stay (weighted mean difference?=?-3.22 days; 95 % CI-4.21, -2.23 days; p?<?0.01). These benefits were at the cost of longer operative time (weighted mean difference?=?26.9 min (95 % CI 8.08-45.82). The rate of intraoperative complications was similar in the two groups. Lymph nodes yield and positive resection margins were similar between the two groups. There were no significant differences in 5-year overall survival (HR 0.91, 95 % CI 0.48-1.71; p?=?0.76) and 5-year disease-free survival (hazard ratio [HR] 0.97, 95 % CI 0.56-1.68; p?=?0.91). CONCLUSIONS: LRH shows better short term outcomes compared with RH in patients with cervical cancer. The oncologic outcome and 5-year survival were similar between the two groups.			2015				10474
Efficacy and safety of abacavir-containing combination antiretroviral therapy as first-line treatment of HIV infected children and adolescents: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Adetokunboh, O. O., Schoonees, A., Balogun, T. A. and Wiysonge, C. S.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: Abacavir is one of the recommended nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) for the treatment of HIV infections among children and adolescents. However, there are concerns that the antiviral efficacy of abacavir might be low when compared to other NRTIs especially among children. There are also concerns that abacavir use may lead to serious adverse events such as hypersensitivity reactions and has potential predisposition to developing cardiovascular diseases METHODS: We searched four electronic databases, four conference proceedings and two clinical trial registries in August 2014, without language restrictions. Experimental and observational studies with control groups that examined the efficacy and safety of abacavir-containing regimens in comparison with other NRTIs as first-line treatment for HIV-infected children and adolescents aged between one month and eighteen years were eligible. Two authors independently screened search results, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of included studies using a pre-specified, standardised data extraction form and validated risk of bias tools. We also assessed the quality of evidence per outcome with the GRADE tool. RESULTS: We included two randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and two analytical cohort studies with a total of 10,595 participants. Among the RCTs we detected no difference in virologic suppression after a mean duration of 48 weeks between abacavir- and stavudine-containing regimens (2 trials; n?=?326: RR 1.28; 95 % CI 0.67-2.42) with significant heterogeneity (P?=?0.02; I(2)?=?81 %). We also found no significant differences between the two groups for adverse events and death. After five years of follow-up, virologic suppression improved with abacavir (1 trial; n?=?69: RR 1.96; 95 % CI 1.11-3.44). For cohort studies, we detected that the virologic suppression activity of abacavir was less effective than stavudine in both the lopinavir/ritonavir (1 study, n?=?2165: RR 0.79, 95 % CI 0.67-0.92) and efavirenz sub-groups (1 study, n?=?3204: RR 0.79, 95 % CI 0.67-0.92) respectively. The quality of evidence from RCTs was moderate for virologic suppression but low for death and adverse events, while that of cohort studies was low for all three these outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Available evidence showed little or no difference between abacavir-containing regimen and other NRTIs regarding efficacy and safety when given to children and adolescents as a first-line antiretroviral therapy.			2015				10141
Evidence of Impaired Proprioception in Chronic, Idiopathic Neck Pain: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Stanton, T. R., Leake, H. B., Chalmers, K. J. and Moseley, G. L.				physical therapy	physical therapy	BACKGROUND: Despite common use of proprioceptive retraining interventions in chronic, idiopathic neck pain, evidence that proprioceptive dysfunction exists in this population is lacking. Determining whether proprioceptive dysfunction exists in chronic neck pain has clear implications for treatment prescription. PURPOSE: We aimed to synthesize and critically appraise all evidence evaluating proprioceptive dysfunction in those with chronic, idiopathic neck pain by completing a systematic review and meta-analysis. DATA SOURCES: Medline, CINAHL, Pubmed, Allied and Complementary Medicine, EMBASE, Academic Search Premier, Scopus, Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro), and the Cochrane Collaboration databases were searched. STUDY SELECTION: All published studies that compared neck proprioception (joint position sense) between a chronic, idiopathic neck pain sample and asymptomatic controls were included. DATA EXTRACTION: Two independent reviewers extracted relevant population and proprioception data and assessed methodological quality using a modified STROBE statement. DATA SYNTHESIS: Thirteen studies were included in the present review. Meta-analysis on ten studies demonstrated that those with chronic neck pain perform significantly worse on 'head-to-neutral' repositioning tests, with a moderate standardized mean difference (SMD) of 0.44 (95% confidence interval: 0.25 to 0.63). Two studies evaluated head repositioning using trunk movement (no active head movement thus hypothesised to remove vestibular input) and found conflicting results. Three studies evaluated complex/postural repositioning tests: postural repositioning was no different between groups and complex movement tests were only impaired in chronic neck pain if error was continuously evaluated throughout the movement. LIMITATIONS: A paucity of studies evaluating complex/postural repositioning tests does not permit us to make any solid conclusions about them. CONCLUSIONS: People with chronic, idiopathic neck pain demonstrate a moderate impairment in 'head-to-neutral' repositioning tests, when compared with asymptomatic controls.			2016				6466
Aspirin Compared to Low Intensity Anticoagulation in Patients with Non-Valvular Atrial Fibrillation. A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Vazquez, F. J., Gonzalez, J. P. and Gándara, E.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Despite its lack of efficacy, aspirin is commonly used for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation. Since prior studies have suggested a benefit of low-intensity anticoagulation over aspirin in the prevention of vascular events, the aim of this systematic review was to compare the outcomes of patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation treated with low-intensity anticoagulation with Vitamin K antagonists or aspirin. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review searching Ovid MEDLINE, Embase and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, from 1946 to October 14th, 2015. Randomized controlled trials were included if they reported the outcomes of patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation treated with a low-intensity anticoagulation compared to patients treated with aspirin. The primary outcome was a combination of ischemic stroke or systemic embolism. The random-effects model odds ratio was used as the outcome measure. RESULTS: Our initial search identified 6309relevant articles of which three satisfied our inclusion criteria and were included. Compared to low-intensity anticoagulation, aspirin alone did not reduce the incidence of ischemic stroke or systemic embolism OR 0.94 (95% CI 0.57-1.56), major bleeding OR 1.06 (95% CI 0.42-2.62) or vascular death OR 1.04 (95% CI 0.61-1.75). The use of aspirin was associated with a significant increase in all-cause mortality OR 1.66 (95% CI 1.12-2.48). CONCLUSION: In patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation, aspirin provides no benefits over low-intensity anticoagulation. Furthermore, the use of aspirin appears to be associated with an increased risk in all-cause mortality. Our study provides more evidence against the use aspirin in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.			2015				7262
Effects of Nonpharmacological Interventions for Dizziness in Older People: Systematic Review		Kendall, J. C., Hartvigsen, J., Azari, M. F. and French, S. D.				physical therapy	physical therapy	BACKGROUND: Non-pharmacological interventions have been shown to have some effectiveness in adults with dizziness; however, the effectiveness of these interventions in older people is unknown. PURPOSE: To determine the effects of conservative non-pharmacological interventions for dizziness in older people. DATA SOURCES: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed, EMBASE, SCOPUS, CINAHL, AMED, Index to Chiropractic Literature, PsychINFO and MANTIS were searched from inception to May 2014. STUDY SELECTION: Two investigators independently screened controlled trials with dizzy participants over 60 years of age. Dizziness from a specific diagnosis such as Meniere's disease and benign positional paroxysmal vertigo were excluded. Outcome measures from included studies included self-reported dizziness and postural balance. DATA EXTRACTION: Two investigators independently extracted data on participants, interventions, comparison group, outcome measures and results. Methodological quality of included studies was assessed with the Cochrane Handbook 12-item risk of bias, and Cochrane Back Group 5-item clinical relevance assessment. DATA SYNTHESIS: Seven articles consisting of seven controlled trials were included. All studies utilized some form of exercise as the main intervention including vestibular rehabilitation exercises, postural balance exercises, and Tai-Chi exercise. Studies had a high risk of bias with a lack of adequate randomization and allocation concealment, reporting on co-interventions, reporting on reasons for drop-outs, and reporting on participant compliance. LIMITATIONS: Heterogeneity between the included studies on interventions and outcome measures prohibited meta-analysis. Only two studies reported a significant difference between the intervention and comparison groups on self-reported dizziness. CONCLUSION: There is insufficient evidence to determine the effectiveness of non-pharmacological treatments for dizziness in older people. Current evidence suffers from high risk of bias and future well-designed trials are needed with adequate blinding, randomization and compliance.			2016				9212
Adjunctive Corticotherapy for Community Acquired Pneumonia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Marti, C., Grosgurin, O., Harbarth, S., Combescure, C., Abbas, M., Rutschmann, O., Perrier, A. and Garin, N.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) induces lung and systemic inflammation, leading to high morbidity and mortality. We systematically reviewed the risks and benefits of adjunctive corticotherapy in the management of patients with CAP. METHODS: We systematically searched Pubmed, Embase and the Cochrane Library for randomized controlled trials comparing adjunctive corticotherapy and antimicrobial therapy with antimicrobial therapy alone in patients with CAP. The primary outcome was 30-day mortality. Secondary outcomes were length of hospital stay, time to clinical stability and severe complications. RESULTS: 14 trials (2077 patients) were included. The reported 30-day mortality was 7.9% (80/1018) among patients treated with adjunctive corticotherapy versus 8.3% (85/1028) among patients treated with antimicrobial therapy alone (RR 0.84; 95%CI 0.55 to1.29). Adjunctive corticotherapy was associated with a reduction of severe complications (RR 0.36; 95%CI 0.23 to 0.56), a shorter length of stay (9.0 days; 95%CI 7.6 to 10.7 vs 10.6 days; 95%CI 7.4 to 15.3) and a shorter time to clinical stability (3.3 days; 95% CI 2.8 to 4.1 vs 4.3 days; 95%CI 3.6 to 5.1). The risk of hyperglycemia was higher among patients treated with adjunctive corticotherapy (RR 1.59; 95%CI 1.06 to 2.38), whereas the risk of gastro-intestinal bleeding was similar (RR 0.83; 95%CI 0.35 to 1.93). In the subgroup analysis based on CAP severity, a survival benefit was found among patients with severe CAP (RR 0.47; 95%CI 0.23 to 0.96). CONCLUSION: Adjunctive corticotherapy is associated with a reduction of length of stay, time to clinical stability, and severe complications among patients with CAP, but the effect on mortality remains uncertain.			2015				9314
Risks and Benefits of Nalmefene in the Treatment of Adult Alcohol Dependence: A Systematic Literature Review and Meta-Analysis of Published and Unpublished Double-Blind Randomized Controlled Trials		Palpacuer, C., Laviolle, B., Boussageon, R., Reymann, J. M., Bellissant, E. and Naudet, F.				plos medicine	plos medicine	BACKGROUND: Nalmefene is a recent option in alcohol dependence treatment. Its approval was controversial. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the aggregated data (registered as PROSPERO 2014:CRD42014014853) to compare the harm/benefit of nalmefene versus placebo or active comparator in this indication. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Three reviewers searched for published and unpublished studies in Medline, the Cochrane Library, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, Current Controlled Trials, and bibliographies and by mailing pharmaceutical companies, the European Medicines Agency (EMA), and the US Food and Drug Administration. Double-blind randomized clinical trials evaluating nalmefene to treat adult alcohol dependence, irrespective of the comparator, were included if they reported (1) health outcomes (mortality, accidents/injuries, quality of life, somatic complications), (2) alcohol consumption outcomes, (3) biological outcomes, or (4) treatment safety outcomes, at 6 mo and/or 1 y. Three authors independently screened the titles and abstracts of the trials identified. Relevant trials were evaluated in full text. The reviewers independently assessed the included trials for methodological quality using the Cochrane Collaboration tool for assessing risk of bias. On the basis of the I2 index or the Cochrane's Q test, fixed or random effect models were used to estimate risk ratios (RRs), mean differences (MDs), or standardized mean differences (SMDs) with 95% CIs. In sensitivity analyses, outcomes for participants who were lost to follow-up were included using baseline observation carried forward (BOCF); for binary measures, patients lost to follow-up were considered equal to failures (i.e., non-assessed patients were recorded as not having responded in both groups). Five randomized controlled trials (RCTs) versus placebo, with a total of 2,567 randomized participants, were included in the main analysis. None of these studies was performed in the specific population defined by the EMA approval of nalmefene, i.e., adults with alcohol dependence who consume more than 60 g of alcohol per day (for men) or more than 40 g per day (for women). No RCT compared nalmefene with another medication. Mortality at 6 mo (RR = 0.39, 95% CI [0.08; 2.01]) and 1 y (RR = 0.98, 95% CI [0.04; 23.95]) and quality of life at 6 mo (SF-36 physical component summary score: MD = 0.85, 95% CI [-0.32; 2.01]; SF-36 mental component summary score: MD = 1.01, 95% CI [-1.33; 3.34]) were not different across groups. Other health outcomes were not reported. Differences were encountered for alcohol consumption outcomes such as monthly number of heavy drinking days at 6 mo (MD = -1.65, 95% CI [-2.41; -0.89]) and at 1 y (MD = -1.60, 95% CI [-2.85; -0.35]) and total alcohol consumption at 6 mo (SMD = -0.20, 95% CI [-0.30; -0.10]). An attrition bias could not be excluded, with more withdrawals for nalmefene than for placebo, including more withdrawals for safety reasons at both 6 mo (RR = 3.65, 95% CI [2.02; 6.63]) and 1 y (RR = 7.01, 95% CI [1.72; 28.63]). Sensitivity analyses showed no differences for alcohol consumption outcomes between nalmefene and placebo, but the weight of these results should not be overestimated, as the BOCF approach to managing withdrawals was used. CONCLUSIONS: The value of nalmefene for treatment of alcohol addiction is not established. At best, nalmefene has limited efficacy in reducing alcohol consumption.			2015				8177
Do interventions that promote awareness of rights increase use of maternity care services? A systematic review		George, Asha S., Branchini, Casey and Portela, Anayda				plos one	plos one	Twenty years after the rights of women to go through pregnancy and childbirth safely were recognized by governments, we assessed the effects of interventions that promote awareness of these rights to increase use of maternity care services. Using inclusion and exclusion criteria defined in a peer-reviewed protocol, we searched published and grey literature from one database of studies on maternal health, two search engines, an internet search and contact with experts. From the 707 unique documents found, 219 made reference to rights, with 22 detailing interventions promoting awareness of rights for maternal and newborn health. Only four of these evaluated effects on health outcomes. While all four interventions promoted awareness of rights, they did so in different ways. Interventions included highly-scripted dissemination meetings with educational materials and other visual aids, participatory approaches that combined raising awareness of rights with improving accountability of services, and broader multi-stakeholder efforts to improve maternal health. Study quality ranged from weak to strong. Measured health outcomes included increased antenatal care and facility birth. Improvements in human rights outcomes such as availability, acceptability, accessibility, quality of care, as well as the capacity of rights holders and duty bearers were also reported to varying extents. Very little information on costs and almost no information on harms or risks were described. Despite searching multiple sources of information, while some studies did report on activities to raise awareness of rights, few detailed how they did so and very few measured effects on health outcomes. Promoting awareness of rights is one element of increasing demand for and use of quality maternity care services for women during pregnancy, birth and after birth. To date efforts have not been well documented in the literature and the program theories, processes and costs, let alone health effects have not been well evaluated. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)			2015				8943
Prophylactic antibiotics for manual removal of retained placenta during vaginal birth: a systematic review of observational studies and meta-analysis		Chibueze, E. C., Parsons, A. J., Ota, E., Swa, T., Oladapo, O. T. and Mori, R.				bmc pregnancy and childbirth	bmc pregnancy and childbirth	BACKGROUND: Manual removal of the placenta is an invasive obstetric procedure commonly used for the management of retained placenta. However, it is unclear whether antibiotic prophylaxis is beneficial in preventing infectious morbidity. We conducted a systematic review to determine the efficacy and safety of routine use of antibiotics for preventing adverse maternal outcomes related to manual placenta removal following vaginal birth. METHODS: A detailed search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane library and the CINAHL databases was conducted for non-randomized studies involving women undergoing manual placenta delivery after vaginal births and where antibiotic prophylaxis use was compared with no treatment or placebo to prevent maternal infection. Search terms including 'delivery, obstetric', 'placenta, retained', 'anti-infective agents', and 'chemoprevention' were used. RESULTS: Of the 407 citations that resulted after elimination of duplicates, 81 full texts were potentially eligible after independent assessment of the title and abstracts. Independent review of the full texts identified three eligible cohort studies which were retrospective in design. These studies contained data on two of the pre-specified outcomes, endometritis and puerperal fever. Other secondary outcomes such as perineal infection and/or any infection, hospital stay duration, sepsis, hemorrhage >1000 ml or hospital readmissions were not reported on excluding puerperal fever. A meta-analysis showed no significant reduction in the incidence of endometritis (odds ratio [OR] 0.84, 95 % confidence interval [CI] 0.38 to 1.85, three studies, 567 women) and puerperal fever (OR 0.99, 95 % CI 0.38 to 2.27, one study, 302 women). CONCLUSIONS: There is currently no evidence to suggest beneficial effects for routine antibiotic use in women undergoing manual placental removal following vaginal birth. In appropriate settings, further research is required to determine whether a policy of routine antibiotic prophylaxis for the procedure should be maintained or discouraged.			2015				7439
Efficacy and Safety of Corticosteroids for Community-Acquired Pneumonia: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Wan, Y. D., Sun, T. W., Liu, Z. Q., Zhang, S. G., Wang, L. X. and Kan, Q. C.				chest	chest	BACKGROUND: Corticosteroids are an option in the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). However, the benefits and adverse effects of corticosteroids, especially in severe CAP, have not been well assessed. METHODS: Pubmed, Embase, and Cochrane library databases from inception to May 2015 were searched. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and cohort studies that evaluated use of corticosteroids in adult patients with CAP were included. The quality of outcomes was evaluated using GRADE methodology. The Mantel-Haenszel method with random-effects modeling was used to calculate pooled relative risks (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals(CIs). RESULTS: Nine eligible RCTs (1667 patients) and six cohort studies(4095 patients), were identified. The mean corticosteroid dose and treatment duration were 30 mg/day methylprednisolone for 7 days. Corticosteroids did not have a statistically significant effect on mortality (RR, 0.72; 95% CI: 0.43-1.21; evidence rank: low) in CAP patients, and severe CAP patients (RCTs; RR, 0.72; 95% CI: 0.43-1.21; evidence rank: low; cohort studies; RR, 1.00; 95% CI, 0.86-1.17 ). Corticosteroids treatment was associated with an decreased risk of adult respiratory distress syndrome (RR, 0.21; 95% CI, 0.08-0.59), and may reduce the lengths of hospital and intensive care unit stay, the duration of intravenous antibiotic treatment, and the time to clinical stability. Corticosteroid were not associated with increased rates of adverse events. CONCLUSIONS: Short-term treatment with corticosteroids is safe, and may reduce the risk of adult respiratory distress syndrome, shorten the length of the disease in CAP patients.			2016				9316
Endoscopic Resection Compared with Gastrectomy to Treat Early Gastric Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Wang, S., Zhang, Z., Liu, M., Li, S. and Jiang, C.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Endoscopic resection and gastrectomy are treatment modalities for early gastric cancer, but their relative benefits and risks are unclear. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to compare endoscopic resection and gastrectomy for treating early gastric cancer. METHODS: We searched PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library until April 2015 for studies comparing endoscopic resection with gastrectomy for treatment of early gastric cancer. Outcome measures were five-year overall survival (OS), length of hospital stay and postoperative morbidity. We calculated pooled hazard ratio (HR), weighted mean difference (WMD) and odds ratio (OR) using random effects models. RESULTS: Six studies comprising 1,466 patients (618 endoscopic resection and 848 gastrectomy) met inclusion criteria. Five-year OS was similar between endoscopic resection and gastrectomy (HR, 1.06; 95%CI: 0.61 to 1.83). Endoscopic resection was associated with shorter hospital stays (WMD, -6.94; 95%CI: -7.59 to -6.29) and reduced overall postoperative morbidity (OR, 0.36; 95%CI: 0.17 to 0.74). CONCLUSIONS: While five-year OS is similar between endoscopic resection and gastrectomy, endoscopic resection offers a shorter hospital stay and fewer complications than gastrectomy for treating early gastric cancer. Endoscopic resection is a reasonable treatment for early gastric cancer with a negligible risk of lymph node metastasis.			2015				6563
The Effect of Disease Modifying Therapies on Disease Progression in Patients with Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Tsivgoulis, G., Katsanos, A. H., Grigoriadis, N., Hadjigeorgiou, G. M., Heliopoulos, I., Papathanasopoulos, P., Kilidireas, C., Voumvourakis, K., Dardiotis, E. and Helani				plos one	plos one	"IMPORTANCE: A number of officially approved disease-modifying drugs (DMD) are currently available for the early intervention in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). The aim of the present study was to systematically evaluate the effect of DMDs on disability progression in RRMS. METHODS: We performed a systematic review on MEDLINE and SCOPUS databases to include all available placebo-controlled randomized clinical trials (RCTs) of RRMS patients that reported absolute numbers or percentages of disability progression during each study period. Observational studies, case series, case reports, RCTs without placebo subgroups and studies reporting the use of RRMS therapies that are not still officially approved were excluded. Risk ratios (RRs) were calculated in each study protocol to express the comparison of disability progression in RRMS patients treated with a DMD and those RRMS patients receiving placebo. The mixed-effects model was used to calculate both the pooled point estimate in each subgroup and the overall estimates. RESULTS: DMDs for RRMS were found to have a significantly lower risk of disability progression compared to placebo (RR = 0.72, 95%CI: 0.66-0.79; p<0.001), with no evidence of heterogeneity or publication bias. In subsequent subgroup analyses, neither dichotomization of DMDs as ""first"" and ""second"" line RRMS therapies [(RR = 0.72, 95% CI = 0.65-0.80) vs. (RR = 0.72, 95% = 0.57-0.91); p = 0.96] nor the route of administration (injectable or oral) [RR = 0.75 (95% CI = 0.64-0.87) vs. RR = 0.74 (95% CI = 0.66-0.83); p = 0.92] had a differential effect on the risk of disability progression. Either considerable (5-20%) or significant (>20%) rates of loss to follow-up were reported in many study protocols, while financial and/or other support from pharmaceutical industries with a clear conflict of interest on the study outcomes was documented in all included studies. CONCLUSIONS: Available DMD are effective in reducing disability progression in patients with RRMS, independently of the route of administration and their classification as ""first"" or ""second"" line therapies. Attrition bias needs to be taken into account in the interpretation of these findings."			2015				7850
Comparison of the Novel Oral Anticoagulants Apixaban, Dabigatran, Edoxaban, and Rivaroxaban in the Initial and Long-Term Treatment and Prevention of Venous Thromboembolism: Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis		Cohen, A. T., Hamilton, M., Mitchell, S. A., Phatak, H., Liu, X., Bird, A., Tushabe, D. and Batson, S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Anticoagulation with low molecular weight heparin and vitamin K antagonists is the current standard of care (SOC) for venous thromboembolism (VTE) treatment and prevention. Although novel oral anti-coagulants (NOACs) have been compared with SOC in this indication, no head-to-head randomised controlled trials (RCTs) have directly compared NOACs. A systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA) were conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of NOACs for the initial and long-term treatment of VTE. METHODS: Electronic databases (accessed July 2014) were systematically searched to identify RCTs evaluating apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, and rivaroxaban versus SOC. Eligible patients included adults with an objectively confirmed deep vein thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE) or both. A fixed-effect Bayesian NMA was conducted for outcomes of interest, and results were presented as relative risks (RR) and 95% credible intervals (Crl). RESULTS: Six Phase III RCTs met criteria for inclusion: apixaban (one RCT; n = 5,395); rivaroxaban (two RCTs; n = 3,423/4,832); dabigatran (two RCTs; n = 2,539/2,568); edoxaban (one RCT; n = 8,240). There were no statistically significant differences between the NOACs with regard to the risk of 'VTE and VTE-related death. Apixaban treatment was associated with the most favourable safety profile of the NOACs, showing a statistically significantly reduced risk of 'major or clinically relevant non-major (CRNM) bleed' compared with rivaroxaban (0.47 [0.36, 0.61]), dabigatran (0.69 [0.51, 0.94]), and edoxaban (0.54 [0.41, 0.69]). Dabigatran was also associated with a significantly lower risk of 'major or CRNM bleed' compared with rivaroxaban (0.68 [0.53, 0.87]) and edoxaban (0.77 [0.60, 0.99]). CONCLUSIONS: Indirect comparisons showed statistically similar reductions in the risk of 'VTE or VTE-related death for all NOACs. In contrast, reductions in 'major or CRNM bleed' for initial/long-term treatment were significantly better with apixaban compared with all other NOACs, and with dabigatran compared with rivaroxaban and edoxaban. Results from the current analysis indicate that the NOACs offer clinical benefit over conventional therapy while highlighting relative differences in their bleeding profile.			2015				8156
Efficacy of Second Generation Direct-Acting Antiviral Agents for Treatment Naïve Hepatitis C Genotype 1: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis		Suwanthawornkul, T., Anothaisintawee, T., Sobhonslidsuk, A., Thakkinstian, A. and Teerawattananon, Y.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The treatment of hepatitis C (HCV) infections has significantly changed in the past few years due to the introduction of direct-acting antiviral agents (DAAs). DAAs could improve the sustained virological response compared to pegylated interferon with ribavirin (PR). However, there has been no evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that directly compare the efficacy among the different regimens of DAAs. AIM: Therefore, we performed a systematic review and network meta-analysis aiming to compare the treatment efficacy between different DAA regimens for treatment naïve HCV genotype 1. METHODS: Medline and Scopus were searched up to 25th May 2015. RCTs investigating the efficacy of second generation DAA regimens for treatment naïve HCV genotype 1 were eligible for the review. Due to the lower efficacy and more side effects of first generation DAAs, this review included only second generation DAAs approved by the US or EU Food and Drug Administration, that comprised of simeprevir (SMV), sofosbuvir (SOF), daclatasvir (DCV), ledipasvir (LDV), and paritaprevir/ritonavir/ombitasvir plus dasabuvir (PrOD). Primary outcomes were sustained virological response at weeks 12 (SVR12) and 24 (SVR24) after the end of treatment and adverse drug events (i.e. serious adverse events, anemia, and fatigue). Efficacy of all treatment regimens were compared by applying a multivariate random effect meta-analysis. Incidence rates of SVR12 and SVR24, and adverse drug events of each treatment regimen were pooled using 'pmeta' command in STATA program. RESULTS: Overall, 869 studies were reviewed and 16 studies were eligible for this study. Compared with the PR regimen, SOF plus PR, SMV plus PR, and DVC plus PR regimens yielded significantly higher probability of having SVR24 with pooled risk ratios (RR) of 1.98 (95% CI 1.24, 3.14), 1.46 (95% CI: 1.22, 1.75), and 1.68 (95% CI: 1.14, 2.46), respectively. Pooled incidence rates of SVR12 and SVR24 in all treatment regimens without PR, i.e. SOF plus LDV with/without ribavirin, SOF plus SMV with/without ribavirin, SOF plus DCV with/without ribavirin, and PrOD with/without ribavirin, (pooled incidence of SVR12 ranging from 93% to 100%, and pooled incidence of SVR24 ranging from 89% to 96%) were much higher than the pooled incidence rates of SVR12 (51%) and SVR24 (48%) in PR alone. In comparing SOF plus LDV with ribavirin and SOF plus LDV without ribavirin, the chance of having SVR12 was not significantly different between these two regimens, with the pooled RR of 0.99 (95% CI: 0.97, 1.01). Regarding adverse drug events, risk of serious adverse drug events, anemia and fatigue were relatively higher in treatment regimens with PR than the treatment regimens without PR. The main limitation of our study is that a subgroup analysis according to dosages and duration of treatment could not be performed. Therefore, the dose and duration of recommended treatment have been suggested in range and not in definite value. CONCLUSIONS: Both DAA plus PR and dual DAA regimens should be included in the first line drug for treatment naïve HCV genotype 1 because of the significant clinical benefits over PR alone. However, due to high drug costs, an economic evaluation should be conducted in order to assess the value of the investment when making coverage decisions.			2015				8143
Non-Adrenergic Vasopressors in Patients with or at Risk for Vasodilatory Shock. A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Trials		Belletti, A., Musu, M., Silvetti, S., Saleh, O., Pasin, L., Monaco, F., Hajjar, L. A., Fominskiy, E., Finco, G., Zangrillo, A. and Landoni, G.				plos one	plos one	INTRODUCTION: Hypotensive state is frequently observed in several critical conditions. If an adequate mean arterial pressure is not promptly restored, insufficient tissue perfusion and organ dysfunction may develop. Fluids and catecholamines are the cornerstone of critical hypotensive states management. Catecholamines side effects such as increased myocardial oxygen consumption and development of arrhythmias are well known. Thus, in recent years, interest in catecholamine-sparing agents such as vasopressin, terlipressin and methylene blue has increased; however, few randomized trials, mostly with small sample sizes, have been performed. We therefore conducted a meta-analysis of randomized trials to investigate the effect of non-catecholaminergic vasopressors on mortality. METHODS: PubMed, BioMed Central and Embase were searched (update December 31st, 2014) by two independent investigators. Inclusion criteria were: random allocation to treatment, at least one group receiving a non-catecholaminergic vasopressor, patients with or at risk for vasodilatory shock. Exclusion criteria were: crossover studies, pediatric population, non-human studies, studies published as abstract only, lack of data on mortality. Studied drugs were vasopressin, terlipressin and methylene blue. Primary endpoint was mortality at the longest follow-up available. RESULTS: A total of 1,608 patients from 20 studies were included in our analysis. The studied settings were sepsis (10/20 studies [50%]), cardiac surgery (7/20 [35%]), vasodilatory shock due to any cause (2/20 [19%]), and acute traumatic injury (1/20 [5%]). Overall, pooled estimates showed that treatment with non-catecholaminergic agents improves survival (278/810 [34.3%] versus 309/798 [38.7%], risk ratio = 0.88, 95% confidence interval = 0.79 to 0.98, p = 0.02). None of the drugs was associated with significant reduction in mortality when analyzed independently. Results were not confirmed when analyzing studies with a low risk of bias. CONCLUSIONS: Catecholamine-sparing agents in patients with or at risk for vasodilatory shock may improve survival. Further researches on this topic are needed to confirm the finding.			2015				9562
Enhanced recovery pathways in abdominal gynecologic surgery: a systematic review and meta-analysis		de Groot, J. J., Ament, S. M., Maessen, J. M., Dejong, C. H., Kleijnen, J. M. and Slangen, B. F.				acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica	acta obstetricia et gynecologica scandinavica	INTRODUCTION: Enhanced recovery pathways have been widely accepted and implemented for different types of surgery. Their overall effect in abdominal gynecologic surgery is still underdetermined. A systematic review and metaanalysis were performed to provide an overview of current evidence and to examine their effect on postoperative outcomes in women undergoing open gynecologic surgery. MATERIAL AND METHODS: Searches were conducted using EMBASE, MEDLINE, CINAHL, and the Cochrane Library up to June 27, 2014. Reference lists were screened to identify additional studies. Studies were included if at least four individual items of an enhanced recovery pathway were described. Outcomes included length of hospital stay, complication rates, readmissions, and mortality. Quantitative analysis was limited to comparative studies. Effect sizes were presented as relative risks or as mean differences (MD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). RESULTS: Thirty-one records, involving 16 observational studies, were included. Diversity in reported elements within studies was observed. Preoperative education, early oral intake, and early mobilization were included in all pathways. Five studies, with a high risk of bias, were eligible for quantitative analysis. Enhanced recovery pathways reduced primary (MD -1.57 days, 95%CI -2.94 to -0.20) and total (MD -3.05 days, 95%CI -4.87 to -1.23) length of hospital stay as compared to traditional perioperative care, without an increase in complication, mortality, and readmission rates. CONCLUSION: The available evidence based on a broad range of non-randomized studies at high risk of bias suggests that enhanced recovery pathways may reduce length of postoperative hospital stay in abdominal gynecologic surgery. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.			2016				7028
Kangaroo Mother Care and Neonatal Outcomes: A Meta-analysis		Boundy, E. O., Dastjerdi, R., Spiegelman, D., Fawzi, W. W., Missmer, S. A., Lieberman, E., Kajeepeta, S., Wall, S. and Chan, G. J.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: Kangaroo mother care (KMC) is an intervention aimed at improving outcomes among preterm and low birth weight newborns. OBJECTIVE: Conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis estimating the association between KMC and neonatal outcomes. DATA SOURCES: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Scopus, African Index Medicus (AIM), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Information System (LILACS), Index Medicus for the Eastern Mediterranean Region (IMEMR), Index Medicus for the South-East Asian Region (IMSEAR), and Western Pacific Region Index Medicus (WPRIM). STUDY SELECTION: We included randomized trials and observational studies through April 2014 examining the relationship between KMC and neonatal outcomes among infants of any birth weight or gestational age. Studies with <10 participants, lack of a comparison group without KMC, and those not reporting a quantitative association were excluded. DATA EXTRACTION: Two reviewers extracted data on study design, risk of bias, KMC intervention, neonatal outcomes, relative risk (RR) or mean difference measures. RESULTS: 1035 studies were screened; 124 met inclusion criteria. Among LBW newborns, KMC compared to conventional care was associated with 36% lower mortality(RR 0.64; 95% [CI] 0.46, 0.89). KMC decreased risk of neonatal sepsis (RR 0.53, 95% CI 0.34, 0.83), hypothermia (RR 0.22; 95% CI 0.12, 0.41), hypoglycemia (RR 0.12; 95% CI 0.05, 0.32), and hospital readmission (RR 0.42; 95% CI 0.23, 0.76) and increased exclusive breastfeeding (RR 1.50; 95% CI 1.26, 1.78). Newborns receiving KMC had lower mean respiratory rate and pain measures, and higher oxygen saturation, temperature, and head circumference growth. LIMITATIONS: Lack of data on KMC limited the ability to assess dose-response. CONCLUSIONS: Interventions to scale up KMC implementation are warranted.			2016				10919
Progesterone for Acute Traumatic Brain Injury: A Systematic Review of Randomized Controlled Trials		Zeng, Y., Zhang, Y., Ma, J. and Xu, J.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of progesterone administrated in patients with acute traumatic brain injury (TBI). METHODS: PubMed/MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Clinicaltrials.gov, ISRCTN registry and WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing progesterone and placebo administrated in acute TBI patients. The primary outcome was mortality and the secondary outcomes were unfavorable outcomes and adverse events. A meta-analysis was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of progesterone administrated in patients with acute TBI. RESULTS: A total of 6 studies met inclusion criteria, involving 2,476 patients. The risk of bias was considered to be low in 4 studies but high in the other 2 studies. The results of meta-analysis indicated progesterone did not reduce the mortality (RR = 0.83, 95% CI = 0.57-1.20) or unfavorable outcomes (RR = 0.89, 95% CI = 0.78-1.02) of acute TBI patients in comparison with placebo. Sensitivity analysis yielded consistent results. Progesterone was basically safe and well tolerated in TBI patients with the exception of increased risk of phlebitis or thrombophlebitis (RR = 3.03, 95% CI = 1.96-4.66). CONCLUSIONS: Despite some modest bias, present evidence demonstrated that progesterone was well tolerated but did not reduce the mortality or unfavorable outcomes of adult patients with acute TBI.			2015				8751
Interventions to improve adherence to treatment for paediatric tuberculosis in low- and middle-income countries: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Weaver, M. S., Lönnroth, K., Howard, S. C., Roter, D. L. and Lam, C. G.				bulletin of the world health organization	bulletin of the world health organization	OBJECTIVE: To assess the design, delivery and outcomes of interventions to improve adherence to treatment for paediatric tuberculosis in low- and middle-income countries and develop a contextual framework for such interventions. METHODS: We searched PubMed and Cochrane databases for reports published between 1 January 2003 and 1 December 2013 on interventions to improve adherence to treatment for tuberculosis that included patients younger than 20 years who lived in a low- or middle-income country. For potentially relevant articles that lacked paediatric outcomes, we contacted the authors of the studies. We assessed heterogeneity and risk of bias. To evaluate treatment success - i.e. the combination of treatment completion and cure - we performed random-effects meta-analysis. We identified areas of need for improved intervention practices. FINDINGS: We included 15 studies in 11 countries for the qualitative analysis and of these studies, 11 qualified for the meta-analysis - representing 1279 children. Of the interventions described in the 15 studies, two focused on education, one on psychosocial support, seven on care delivery, four on health systems and one on financial provisions. The children in intervention arms had higher rates of treatment success, compared with those in control groups (odds ratio: 3.02; 95% confidence interval: 2.19-4.15). Using the results of our analyses, we developed a framework around factors that promoted or threatened treatment completion. CONCLUSION: Various interventions to improve adherence to treatment for paediatric tuberculosis appear both feasible and effective in low- and middle-income countries.			2015				9819
Aripiprazole for the treatment of tic disorders in children: A systematic review and meta-analysis		Yang, Chun-Song, Huang, Hong, Zhang, Ling-Li, Zhu, Cai-Rong and Guo, Qin				bmc psychiatry	bmc psychiatry	BACKGROUND: Tic disorders (TDs) are common neuropsychiatric disorders in children. Typical antipsychotics, such as haloperidol and pimozide have been prescribed to control tic symptoms as first-line agents. However, adverse effects have led to the use of newer atypical antipsychotics. Aripiprazole is one of alternatives. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of aripiprazole for children with TDs. METHODS: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs), quasi-RCTs and control studies evaluating aripiprazole for children with tic disorders were identified from PubMed, Embase, Cochrane library, Cochrane Central, four Chinese database and relevant reference lists. Quality assessment referred to the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. RESULTS: Twelve studies involving 935 participants were included. The general quality of included studies was poor. Only one study used placebo as a control and others used positive drug controls. Participants were aged between 4 and 18 years. The period of treatment ranged from 8 to 12 weeks. Seven studies (N = 600 patients) used the YGTSS scale as the outcome measurement, and there was no significant difference in reduction of the total YGTSS score between the aripiprazole and positive control groups (MD = ?0.48, 95 % CI [?6.22, 5.26], P = 0.87, I² = 87 %). Meta-analysis of four of the studies (N = 285 patients) that compared aripiprazole with haloperidol showed that there was no significant difference in reduction of the total YGTSS score (MD = 2.50, 95 % CI [?6.93, 11.92], P = 0.60, I² = 88 %). Meta-analysis of two studies (N = 255 patients) that compared aripiprazole with tiapride showed that there was no significant difference in reduction of the total YGTSS score (MD = ?3.15, 95 % CI [?11.38, 5.09], P = 0.45, I² = 86 %). Adverse events (AEs) were reported in 11 studies. Drowsiness (5.1 %58.1 %), increased appetite (3.2 %25.8 %), nausea (2 %18.8 %) and headache (2 %16.1 %) were common AEs. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, aripiprazole appears to be a promising therapy for children with TDs. Further well-conducted RCTs are required to confirm this issue. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)			2015				8934
Maternal antenatal multiple micronutrient supplementation for long-term health benefits in children: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Devakumar, D., Fall, C. H., Sachdev, H. S., Margetts, B. M., Osmond, C., Wells, J. C., Costello, A. and Osrin, D.				bmc medicine	bmc medicine	BACKGROUND: Multiple micronutrient supplementation for pregnant women reduces low birth weight and has been recommended in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) to improve child survival, growth and health. We aimed to review the evidence from long-term follow-up studies of multiple micronutrient supplementation beginning in the later first or second trimester. METHODS: We searched systematically for follow-up reports from all trials in a 2015 Cochrane review of multiple micronutrient supplementation in pregnancy. The intervention comprised three or more micronutrients and the comparison group received iron (60 mg) and folic acid (400 ?g), where possible. Median gestation of commencement varied from 9 to 23 weeks. Primary outcomes were offspring mortality, height, weight and head circumference, presented as unadjusted differences in means or proportions (intervention minus control). Secondary outcomes included other anthropometry, body composition, blood pressure, and cognitive and lung function. RESULTS: We found 20 follow-up reports from nine trials (including 88,057 women recruited), six of which used the UNIMMAP supplement designed to provide recommended daily allowances. The age of follow-up ranged from 0 to 9 years. Data for mortality estimates were available from all trials. Meta-analysis showed no difference in mortality (risk difference -0.05 per 1000 livebirths; 95 % CI, -5.25 to 5.15). Six trials investigated anthropometry and found no difference at follow-up in weight-for-age z score (0.02; 95 % CI, -0.03 to 0.07), height-for-age z score (0.01; 95 % CI, -0.04 to 0.06), or head circumference (0.11 cm; 95 % CI, -0.03 to 0.26). No differences were seen in body composition, blood pressure, or respiratory outcomes. No consistent differences were seen in cognitive function scores. CONCLUSIONS: There is currently no evidence that, compared with iron and folic acid supplementation, routine maternal antenatal multiple micronutrient supplementation improves childhood survival, growth, body composition, blood pressure, respiratory or cognitive outcomes.			2016				9027
The chronic care model for type 2 diabetes: a systematic review		Baptista, D. R., Wiens, A., Pontarolo, R., Regis, L., Reis, W. C. and Correr, C. J.				diabetology & metabolic syndrome	diabetology & metabolic syndrome	The chronic care model (CCM) uses a systematic approach to restructure health care systems. The aim of this systematic review was to examine studies that evaluated different elements of the CCM in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and to assess the influence of the CCM on different clinical outcomes. There view was performed in the Medline and Cochrane Library electronic databases. The search was limited to randomized controlled trials conducted with T2DM patients. Studies were eligible for inclusion if they compared usual care with interventions that use done or more elements of the CCM and assessed the impact on clinical outcomes. After applying the eligibility criteria, 12 studies were included for data extraction. Of these, six showed evidence of effectiveness of the CCM for T2DM management in primary care as well as significant improvements in clinical outcomes. In the other six studies, no improvements regarding clinical outcomes were observed when comparing the intervention and control groups. Some limitations, such as a short follow-up period and a low number of patients, were observed. Some studies showed that the reorganization of health systems can improveT2DM care. However, it is possible that greater benefits could be obtained through combing all 6 elements of CCM.			2016				6094
Use of Decision Aids with Minority Patients: a Systematic Review		Nathan, A. G., Marshall, I. M., Cooper, J. M. and Huang, E. S.				journal of general internal medicine	journal of general internal medicine	BACKGROUND: One potential approach to reducing health disparities among minorities is through the promotion of shared decision making (SDM). The most commonly studied SDM intervention is the decision aid (DA). While DAs have been extensively studied, we know relatively little about their use in minority populations. We conducted a systematic review to characterize the application and effectiveness of DAs in racial, ethnic, sexual, and gender minorities. METHODS: We searched PubMed for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating DAs between 2004 and 2013. We included trials that enrolled adults (> 18 years of age) with > 50 % representation by minority patients. Four reviewers independently assessed 597 initially identified articles, and those with inconclusive results were discussed to consensus. We abstracted decision quality, patient-doctor communication, and clinical treatment decision outcomes. Results were considered significantly modified by the DA if the study reported p?<?0.05. RESULTS: We reviewed 18 RCTs of DA interventions in minority populations. The majority of interventions (78 %) addressed cancer screening. The most common mode of delivery for the DAs was personal counseling (46 %), followed by multi-media (29 %), and print materials (25 %). Most of the trials studied racial (78 %) or ethnic (17 %) minorities with only one trial focused on sexual minorities and none on gender minorities. Ten studies tailored their interventions for their minority populations. Comparing intervention vs. control, decision quality outcomes improved in six out of eight studies and patient-doctor communication improved in six out of seven studies. Of the 15 studies that reported on clinical decisions, eight demonstrated significant changes in decisions with DAs. DISCUSSION: DAs have been effective in improving patient-doctor communication and decision quality outcomes in minority populations and could help address health disparities. However, the existing literature is almost non-existent for sexual and gender minorities and has not included the full breadth of clinical decisions that affect minority populations.			2016				5675
Impact of an Early Invasive Strategy versus Conservative Strategy for Unstable Angina and Non-ST Elevation Acute Coronary Syndrome in Patients with Chronic Kidney Disease: A Systematic Review		Shaw, C., Nitsch, D., Lee, J., Fogarty, D. and Sharpe, C. C.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Clinical practice guidelines support an early invasive approach after NSTE-ACS in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). There is no direct randomised controlled trial evidence in the CKD population, and whether the benefit of an early invasive approach is maintained across the spectrum of severity of CKD remains controversial. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review to evaluate the association between an early invasive approach and all-cause mortality in patients with CKD. We searched MEDLINE and EMBASE (1990-May 2015) and article reference lists. Data describing study design, participants, invasive management strategies, renal function, all-cause mortality and risk of bias were extracted. RESULTS: 3,861 potentially relevant studies were identified. Ten studies, representing data on 147,908 individuals with NSTE-ACS met the inclusion criteria. Qualitative heterogeneity in the definitions of early invasive approach, comparison groups and renal dysfunction existed. Meta-analysis of the RCT derived and observational data were generally supportive of an early invasive approach in CKD (RR0.76 (95% CI 0.49-1.17) and RR0.50 (95%CI 0.42-0.59) respectively). Meta-analysis of the observational studies demonstrated a large degree of heterogeneity (I2 79%) driven in part by study size and heterogeneity across various kidney function levels. CONCLUSIONS: The observational data support that an early invasive approach after NSTE-ACS confers a survival benefit in those with early-moderate CKD. Local opportunities for quality improvement should be sought. Those with severe CKD and the dialysis population are high risk and under-studied. Novel and inclusive approaches for CKD and dialysis patients in cardiovascular clinical trials are needed.			2016				7980
Efficacy of Short-Term Antiarrhythmic Drugs Use after Catheter Ablation of Atrial Fibrillation-A Systematic Review with Meta-Analyses and Trial Sequential Analyses of Randomized Controlled Trials		Chen, W., Liu, H., Ling, Z., Xu, Y., Fan, J., Du, H., Xiao, P., Su, L., Liu, Z., Lan, X., Zrenner, B. and Yin, Y.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The efficacy of short-term antiarrhythmic drugs (AADs) use compared with no-AADs prescription after catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation (AF) in preventing atrial arrhythmia recurrence is uncertain. METHODS: We searched PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library through December 2015 to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) which evaluated the efficacy of short-term AADs use compared with no-AADs prescription after AF ablation in preventing atrial arrhythmia recurrence. The primary outcome was labeled as early atrial arrhythmia recurrence within 3 months after ablation. Secondary outcome was defined as late recurrence after 3 months of ablation. Random-effects model or fixed-effects model was used to estimate relative risks (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). RESULTS: Six RCTs with 2,667 patients were included into this meta-analysis. Compared with no-AADs administration after AF ablation, short-term AADs use was associated with significant reduction of early atrial arrhythmia recurrence (RR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.52-0.87; p = 0.003). Trial sequential analysis (TSA) showed that the cumulative Z-curve crossed the trial sequential monitoring boundary for benefit, establishing sufficient and conclusive evidence. However, compared with no-AADs prescription, short-term AADs use after AF ablation didn't significantly reduce the risk of late atrial arrhythmia recurrence (RR, 0.92; 95% CI, 0.83-1.03; p = 0.15). TSA supported this result; meanwhile the estimated required information size (1,486 patients) was also met. CONCLUSION: Short-term use of AADs after AF ablation can significantly decrease the risk of early atrial arrhythmia recurrence but not lead to corresponding reduction in risk of late atrial arrhythmia recurrence.			2016				9901
Antibioprophylaxis in Prevention of Endophthalmitis in Intravitreal Injection: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Benoist d'Azy, C., Pereira, B., Naughton, G., Chiambaretta, F. and Dutheil, F.				plos one	plos one	"Despite endophthalmitis being the most feared complication, antibioprophylaxis remains controversial in intravitreal injections. Therefore, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis on the effects of antibioprophylaxis in intravitreal injections in the prevention of endophthalmitis. The PubMed, Cochrane Library, Embase and Science Direct databases were searched for studies comparing groups with and without antibiotics in intravitreal injection, with the use of the following keywords: ""antibiotic*"", ""endophthalmitis"" and ""intravitreal injection*"". To be included, studies needed to specify number of participants and number of endophthalmitis within each group (with and without antibiotics). We conducted meta-analysis on the prevalence of clinical endophthalmitis including both culture-proven and culture negative samples. Nine studies were included. A total of 88 incidences of endophthalmitis were reported from 174,159 injections (0.051% i.e., one incidence of endophthalmitis for 1979 injections). Specifically, 59 incidences of endophthalmitis were reported from 113,530 injections in the group with antibiotics (0.052% or one incidence of endophthalmitis for 1924 injections) and 29 incidences of endophthalmitis from 60,633 injections in the group without antibiotics (0.048% or one endophthalmitis for 2091 injections). Our meta-analysis did not report a significant difference in the prevalence of clinical endophthalimitis between the two groups with and without topical antibiotics: the odds ratio of clinical endophthalimitis was 0.804 (CI95% 0.384-1.682, p = 0.56) for the antibiotic group compared with the group without antibiotics. In conclusion, we performed the first large meta-analysis demonstrating that antibioprophylaxis is not required in intravitreal injections. Strict rules of asepsis remain the only evidence-based prophylaxis of endophthalmitis. The results support initiatives to reduce the global threat of resistance to antibiotics."			2016				6898
Anaesthesia Management for Awake Craniotomy: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Stevanovic, A., Rossaint, R., Veldeman, M., Bilotta, F. and Coburn, M.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Awake craniotomy (AC) renders an expanded role in functional neurosurgery. Yet, evidence for optimal anaesthesia management remains limited. We aimed to summarise the latest clinical evidence of AC anaesthesia management and explore the relationship of AC failures on the used anaesthesia techniques. METHODS: Two authors performed independently a systematic search of English articles in PubMed and EMBASE database 1/2007-12/2015. Search included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), observational trials, and case reports (n>4 cases), which reported anaesthetic approach for AC and at least one of our pre-specified outcomes: intraoperative seizures, hypoxia, arterial hypertension, nausea and vomiting, neurological dysfunction, conversion into general anaesthesia and failure of AC. Random effects meta-analysis was used to estimate event rates for four outcomes. Relationship with anaesthesia technique was explored using logistic meta-regression, calculating the odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals [95%CI]. RESULTS: We have included forty-seven studies. Eighteen reported asleep-awake-asleep technique (SAS), twenty-seven monitored anaesthesia care (MAC), one reported both and one used the awake-awake-awake technique (AAA). Proportions of AC failures, intraoperative seizures, new neurological dysfunction and conversion into general anaesthesia (GA) were 2% [95%CI:1-3], 8% [95%CI:6-11], 17% [95%CI:12-23] and 2% [95%CI:2-3], respectively. Meta-regression of SAS and MAC technique did not reveal any relevant differences between outcomes explained by the technique, except for conversion into GA. Estimated OR comparing SAS to MAC for AC failures was 0.98 [95%CI:0.36-2.69], 1.01 [95%CI:0.52-1.88] for seizures, 1.66 [95%CI:1.35-3.70] for new neurological dysfunction and 2.17 [95%CI:1.22-3.85] for conversion into GA. The latter result has to be interpreted cautiously. It is based on one retrospective high-risk of bias study and significance was abolished in a sensitivity analysis of only prospectively conducted studies. CONCLUSION: SAS and MAC techniques were feasible and safe, whereas data for AAA technique are limited. Large RCTs are required to prove superiority of one anaesthetic regime for AC.			2016				8319
Efficacy and Safety of Combined Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) and Docetaxel Compared with ADT Alone for Metastatic Hormone-Naive Prostate Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Botrel, T. E., Clark, O., Lima Pompeo, A. C., Horta Bretas, F. F., Sadi, M. V., Ferreira, U. and Borges Dos Reis, R.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: Prostate cancer is the most common nonskin cancer and second most common cause of cancer mortality in older men in the United States (USA) and Western Europe. Androgen-deprivation therapy alone (ADT) remains the first line of treatment in most cases, for metastatic disease. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of all randomized controlled trials (RCT) that compared the efficacy and adverse events profile of a chemohormonal therapy (ADT ± docetaxel) for metastatic hormone-naive prostate cancer (mHNPC). METHODS: Several databases were searched, including MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, and CENTRAL. The primary endpoint was overall survival. Data extracted from the studies were combined by using the hazard ratio (HR) or risk ratio (RR) with their corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). RESULTS: The final analysis included 3 trials comprising 2,264 patients (mHNPC). Patients who received the chemohormonal therapy had a longer clinical progression-free survival interval (HR = 0.64; 95% CI: 0.55 to 0.75; p<0.00001), and no heterogeneity (Chi2 = 0.64; df = 1 [p = 0.42]; I2 = 0%). The biochemical progression-free survival (bPFS) also was higher in patients treated with ADT plus docetaxel (HR = 0.63; 95% CI: 0.57 to 0.69; p<0.00001), also with no heterogeneity noted (Chi2 = 0.48; df = 2 [p = 0.79]; I2 = 0%). Finally, the combination of ADT with docetaxel showed a superior overall survival (OS) compared with ADT alone (HR = 0.73; 95% CI: 0.64 to 0.84; p<0.0001), with moderate heterogeneity (Chi2 = 3.84; df = 2 [p = 0.15]; I2 = 48%). A random-effects model analysis was performed, and the results remained favorable to the use of ADT plus docetaxel (HR = 0.73; 95% CI: 0.60 to 0.89; p = 0.002). In the final combined analysis of the high-volume disease patients, the use of the combination therapy also favored an increased overall survival (HR = 0.67; 95% CI: 0.54 to 0.83; p = 0.0003). Regarding adverse events and severe toxicity (grade ?3), the group receiving the combined therapy had higher rates of neutropenia, febrile neutropenia and fatigue. CONCLUSION: The combination of ADT with docetaxel improved the clinical progression-free survival, bPFS and OS of patients with mHNPC. A superior OS was seen especially for patients with metastatic and high-volume disease. This contemporary combination therapy may now be offered as a first-line treatment for selected patients.			2016				8150
Cardiovascular and Renal Outcomes of Renin-Angiotensin System Blockade in Adult Patients with Diabetes Mellitus: A Systematic Review with Network Meta-Analyses		Catalá-López, F., Macías Saint-Gerons, D., González-Bermejo, D., Rosano, G. M., Davis, B. R., Ridao, M., Zaragoza, A., Montero-Corominas, D., Tobías, A., de la Fuente-Honrubia, C., Tabarés-Seisdedos, R. and Hutton, B.				plos medicine	plos medicine	BACKGROUND: Medications aimed at inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) have been used extensively for preventing cardiovascular and renal complications in patients with diabetes, but data that compare their clinical effectiveness are limited. We aimed to compare the effects of classes of RAS blockers on cardiovascular and renal outcomes in adults with diabetes. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Eligible trials were identified by electronic searches in PubMed/MEDLINE and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (1 January 2004 to 17 July 2014). Interventions of interest were angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and direct renin (DR) inhibitors. The primary endpoints were cardiovascular mortality, myocardial infarction, and stroke-singly and as a composite endpoint, major cardiovascular outcome-and end-stage renal disease [ESRD], doubling of serum creatinine, and all-cause mortality-singly and as a composite endpoint, progression of renal disease. Secondary endpoints were angina pectoris and hospitalization for heart failure. In all, 71 trials (103,120 participants), with a total of 14 different regimens, were pooled using network meta-analyses. When compared with ACE inhibitor, no other RAS blocker used in monotherapy and/or combination was associated with a significant reduction in major cardiovascular outcomes: ARB (odds ratio [OR] 1.02; 95% credible interval [CrI] 0.90-1.18), ACE inhibitor plus ARB (0.97; 95% CrI 0.79-1.19), DR inhibitor plus ACE inhibitor (1.32; 95% CrI 0.96-1.81), and DR inhibitor plus ARB (1.00; 95% CrI 0.73-1.38). For the risk of progression of renal disease, no significant differences were detected between ACE inhibitor and each of the remaining therapies: ARB (OR 1.10; 95% CrI 0.90-1.40), ACE inhibitor plus ARB (0.97; 95% CrI 0.72-1.29), DR inhibitor plus ACE inhibitor (0.99; 95% CrI 0.65-1.57), and DR inhibitor plus ARB (1.18; 95% CrI 0.78-1.84). No significant differences were showed between ACE inhibitors and ARBs with respect to all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, myocardial infarction, stroke, angina pectoris, hospitalization for heart failure, ESRD, or doubling serum creatinine. Findings were limited by the clinical and methodological heterogeneity of the included studies. Potential inconsistency was identified in network meta-analyses of stroke and angina pectoris, limiting the conclusiveness of findings for these single endpoints. CONCLUSIONS: In adults with diabetes, comparisons of different RAS blockers showed similar effects of ACE inhibitors and ARBs on major cardiovascular and renal outcomes. Compared with monotherapies, the combination of an ACE inhibitor and an ARB failed to provide significant benefits on major outcomes. Clinicians should discuss the balance between benefits, costs, and potential harms with individual diabetes patients before starting treatment. REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42014014404.			2016				7855
Interventions to aid patient adherence to physiotherapist prescribed self-management strategies: a systematic review		Peek, K., Sanson-Fisher, R., Mackenzie, L. and Carey, M.				physiotherapy	physiotherapy	BACKGROUND: Physiotherapist prescribed self-management strategies are an important adjunct to 'hands on' treatment. However, treatment outcomes are likely to be related to whether patients adhere to the prescribed strategy. Therefore, physiotherapists should be aware of adherence aiding interventions designed to maximise patient outcomes underpinned by quality research studies. OBJECTIVE: To conduct a systematic review of the interventions used to aid patient adherence to all physiotherapist prescribed self-management strategies. DATA SOURCES: The search included the databases CINAHL, EMBASE, MEDLINE, PUBMED, PSYCINFO, SPORTSDiscus, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PEDro and Mednar for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) published in a peer reviewed journal from inception to November 2014. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Data were extracted using a standardised form from twelve included RCTs for patient adherence rates to self-management strategies for interventions used to aid patient adherence and usual care. Two independent reviewers conducted methodological quality assessment. RESULTS: Twelve different interventions to aid patient adherence to exercise were recorded from twelve fair to high quality RCTs. Potential adherence aiding interventions include an activity monitor and feedback system, written exercise instructions, behavioural exercise programme with booster sessions and goal setting. CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS OF KEY FINDINGS: Despite a number of studies demonstrating interventions to positively influence patient adherence to exercise, there is insufficient data to endorse their use in clinical practice. No RCTs examining adherence aiding interventions to self-management strategies other than exercise were identified, indicating a significant gap in the literature. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION NUMBER: PROSPERO CRD42015014516.			2016				5897
Management and postoperative outcome in primary lung cancer and heart disease co-morbidity: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Bablekos, G. D., Analitis, A., Michaelides, S. A., Charalabopoulos, K. A. and Tzonou, A.				annals of translational medicine	annals of translational medicine	BACKGROUND: Co-morbidity of primary lung cancer (LC) and heart disease (HD), both requiring surgical therapy, characterizes a high risk group of patients necessitating prompt diagnosis and treatment. The aim of this study is the review of available evidence guiding the management of these patients. METHODS: Postoperative outcome of patients operated for primary LC (first meta-analysis) and for both primary LC and HD co-morbidity (second meta-analysis), were studied. Parameters examined in both meta-analyses were thirty-day postoperative mortality, postoperative complications, three- and five-year survival probabilities. The last 36 years were reviewed by using the PubMed data base. Thirty-seven studies were qualified for both meta-analyses. RESULTS: The pooled 30-day mortality percentages (%) were 4.16% [95% confidence interval (CI): 2.68-5.95] (first meta-analysis) and 5.26% (95% CI: 3.47-7.62) (second meta-analysis). Higher percentages of squamous histology and lobectomy, were significantly associated with increased (P=0.001) and decreased (P<0.001) thirty-day postoperative mortality, respectively (first meta-analysis). The pooled percentages for postoperative complications were 34.32% (95% CI: 24.59-44.75) (first meta-analysis) and 45.59% (95% CI: 35.62-55.74) (second meta-analysis). Higher percentages of squamous histology (P=0.001), lobectomy (P=0.002) and p-T1 or p-T2 (P=0.034) were associated with higher proportions of postoperative complications (second meta-analysis). The pooled three- and five- year survival probabilities were 68.25% (95% CI: 45.93-86.86) and 52.03% (95% CI: 34.71-69.11), respectively. Higher mean age (P=0.046) and percentage lobectomy (P=0.009) significantly reduced the five-year survival probability. CONCLUSIONS: Lobectomy and age were both accompanied by reduced five-year survival rate. Also, combined aorto-coronary bypass grafting (CABG) with lobectomy for squamous pT1 or pT2 LC displayed a higher risk of postoperative complications. Moreover, medical decision between combined or staged surgery is suggested to be individualized based on adequacy of coronary arterial perfusion, age, patient's preoperative performance status (taking into account possible co-morbidities per patient), tumor's staging and extent of lung resection.			2016				9432
The Feasibility and Oncological Safety of Axillary Reverse Mapping in Patients with Breast Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Prospective Studies		Han, C., Yang, B., Zuo, W. S., Zheng, G., Yang, L. and Zheng, M. Z.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: The axillary reverse mapping (ARM) technique has recently been developed to prevent lymphedema by preserving the arm lymphatic drainage during sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) or axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) procedures. The objective of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to evaluate the feasibility and oncological safety of ARM. METHODS: We searched Medline, Embase, Web of science, Scopus, and the Cochrane Library for relevant prospective studies. The identification rate of ARM nodes, the crossover rate of SLN-ARM nodes, the proportion of metastatic ARM nodes, and the incidence of complications were pooled into meta-analyses by the random-effects model. RESULTS: A total of 24 prospective studies were included into meta-analyses, of which 11 studies reported ARM during SLNB, and 18 studies reported ARM during SLNB. The overall identification rate of ARM nodes was 38.2% (95% CI 32.9%-43.8%) during SLNB and 82.8% (78.0%-86.6%) during ALND, respectively. The crossover rate of SLN-ARM nodes was 19.6% (95% CI 14.4%-26.1%). The metastatic rate of ARM nodes was 16.9% (95% CI 14.2%-20.1%). The pooled incidence of lymphedema was 4.1% (95% CI 2.9-5.9%) for patients undergoing ARM procedure. CONCLUSIONS: The ARM procedure was feasible during ALND. Nevertheless, it was restricted by low identification rate of ARM nodes during SLNB. ARM was beneficial for preventing lymphedema. However, this technique should be performed with caution given the possibility of crossover SLN-ARM nodes and metastatic ARM nodes. ARM appeared to be unsuitable for patients with clinically positive breast cancer due to oncological safety concern.			2016				8088
Antenatal Corticosteroids for Reducing Adverse Maternal and Child Outcomes in Special Populations of Women at Risk of Imminent Preterm Birth: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Amiya, R. M., Mlunde, L. B., Ota, E., Swa, T., Oladapo, O. T. and Mori, R.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: This study synthesizes available evidence on antenatal corticosteroids (ACS) use among special subgroups of women at risk of imminent preterm birth, including those (1) with pregestational and gestational diabetes mellitus, (2) undergoing elective caesarean section (CS) in late preterm (34 to<37 weeks), (3) with chorioamnionitis, and (4) with growth-restricted fetuses. METHODS: A systematic search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, Cochrane Library, POPLINE, and World Health Organization Regional Databases was conducted for all comparative studies. Two reviewers independently determined study eligibility, extracted data, and assessed study quality. Pooled mean differences and odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals were estimated from available data, based on fixed- and random-effects models, as appropriate. RESULTS: No eligible studies were identified for ACS use in diabetic pregnant women or those undergoing elective CS at late preterm. Nine studies each on ACS use in women with chorioamnionitis and in women with fetal growth restriction met inclusion criteria; eight studies were separately included in the meta-analyses for the two subpopulations. For ACS administration in women with chorioamnionitis, pooled analyses showed reductions in neonatal mortality (OR: 0.49, 95% CI: 0.34-0.73), respiratory distress syndrome (OR: 0.58, 95% CI: 0.44-0.76), intraventricular haemorrhage (OR: 0.41, 95% CI: 0.24-0.69), and severe intraventricular haemorrhage (OR: 0.40, 95% CI: 0.24-0.69). Maternal and long-term newborn outcomes were not reported. Effects of ACS use were inconclusive for cases with fetal growth restriction. CONCLUSION: Direct evidence on the effectiveness and safety of ACS is lacking for diabetic pregnant women at risk of preterm birth and those undergoing elective late-preterm CS, though this does not necessarily recommend against their use in diabetic women. While evidence remains inconclusive for women with growth-restricted preterm neonates, ACS appears to benefit preterm neonates delivered by women with chorioamnionitis. High-quality studies on maternal and long-term child outcomes in more diverse settings are needed to establish the balance of potential harms versus benefits in using ACS for these understudied subgroups.			2016				9994
Efficacy and safety of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists for patients with heart failure and diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Chen, M. D., Dong, S. S., Cai, N. Y., Fan, M. D., Gu, S. P., Zheng, J. J., Yin, H. M., Zhou, X. H., Wang, L. X., Li, C. Y. and Zheng, C.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to systematically assess the efficacy and safety of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) for patients with heart failure (HF) and diabetes mellitus (DM). METHODS: We conducted a comprehensive search for controlled studies that evaluated the efficacy and safety of MRAs in patients with DM and HF. Medline, Embase and Cochrane databases were searched. Two reviewers independently identified citations, extracted data and evaluated quality. Risk estimations were abstracted and pooled where appropriate. RESULTS: Four observational studies were included. MRAs use was associated with reduced mortality compared with controls (RR = 0.78; 95% CI: 0.69-0.88; I(2)?= 0%; P < 0.001). Increased risk of developing hyperkalaemia was observed in those patients taking MRAs (RR = 1.74; 95% CI: 1.27-2.38; I(2) = 0%; P = 0.0005). CONCLUSIONS: The current cumulative evidence suggests that MRAs can improve clinical outcomes but increase the risk of hyperkalaemia in patients with DM and HF. TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42015025690 .			2016				9774
Discordant Immune Response with Antiretroviral Therapy in HIV-1: A Systematic Review of Clinical Outcomes		Kelly, C., Gaskell, K. M., Richardson, M., Klein, N., Garner, P. and MacPherson, P.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: A discordant immune response (DIR) is a failure to satisfactorily increase CD4 counts on ART despite successful virological control. Literature on the clinical effects of DIR has not been systematically evaluated. We aimed to summarise the risk of mortality, AIDS and serious non-AIDS events associated with DIR with a systematic review. METHODS: The protocol is registered with the Centre for Review Dissemination, University of York (registration number CRD42014010821). Included studies investigated the effect of DIR on mortality, AIDS, or serious non-AIDS events in cohort studies or cohorts contained in arms of randomised controlled trials for adults aged 16 years or older. DIR was classified as a suboptimal CD4 count (as defined by the study) despite virological suppression following at least 6 months of ART. We systematically searched PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library to December 2015. Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane tool for assessing risk of bias in cohort studies. Two authors applied inclusion criteria and one author extracted data. Risk ratios were calculated for each clinical outcome reported. RESULTS: Of 20 studies that met the inclusion criteria, 14 different definitions of DIR were used. Risk ratios for mortality in patients with and without DIR ranged between 1.00 (95% CI 0.26 to 3.92) and 4.29 (95% CI 1.96 to 9.38) with the majority of studies reporting a 2 to 3 fold increase in risk. CONCLUSIONS: DIR is associated with a marked increase in mortality in most studies but definitions vary widely. We propose a standardised definition to aid the development of management options for DIR.			2016				6403
Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring in Individuals with HIV: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Kent, S. T., Bromfield, S. G., Burkholder, G. A., Falzon, L., Oparil, S., Overton, E. T., Mugavero, M. J., Schwartz, J. E., Shimbo, D. and Muntner, P.				plos one	plos one	INTRODUCTION: Abnormal diurnal blood pressure (BP) rhythms may contribute to the high cardiovascular disease risk in HIV-positive (HIV+) individuals. To synthesize the current literature on ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) in HIV+ individuals, a systematic literature review and meta-analysis were performed. METHODS: Medical databases were searched through November 11, 2015 for studies that reported ABPM results in HIV+ individuals. Data were extracted by 2 reviewers and pooled differences between HIV+ and HIV-negative (HIV-) individuals in clinic BP and ABPM measures were calculated using random-effects inverse variance weighted models. RESULTS: Of 597 abstracts reviewed, 8 studies with HIV+ cohorts met the inclusion criteria. The 420 HIV+ and 714 HIV- individuals in 7 studies with HIV- comparison groups were pooled for analyses. The pooled absolute nocturnal systolic and diastolic BP declines were 3.16% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.13%, 5.20%) and 2.92% (95% CI: 1.64%, 4.19%) less, respectively, in HIV+ versus HIV- individuals. The pooled odds ratio for non-dipping systolic BP (nocturnal systolic BP decline <10%) in HIV+ versus HIV- individuals was 2.72 (95% CI: 1.92, 3.85). Differences in mean clinic, 24-hour, daytime, or nighttime BP were not statistically significant. I2 and heterogeneity chi-squared statistics indicated the presence of high heterogeneity for all outcomes except percent DBP dipping and non-dipping SBP pattern. CONCLUSIONS: An abnormal diurnal BP pattern may be more common among HIV+ versus HIV- individuals. However, results were heterogeneous for most BP measures, suggesting more research in this area is needed.			2016				6585
Effectiveness of non invasive external pelvic compression: a systematic review of the literature		Bakhshayesh, P., Boutefnouchet, T. and Tötterman, A.				scandinavian journal of trauma, resuscitation and emergency medicine	scandinavian journal of trauma, resuscitation and emergency medicine	INTRODUCTION: Pelvic fractures might carry a significant risk of bleeding. A wide variety of pelvic binders together with pelvic sheets are available and offer an adjunct to the initial management of poly-trauma patients with pelvic injuries. These devices are collectively referred to as pelvic circumferential compression devices (PCCDs). The aim of this study was to review the literature for evidence pertinent to the efficacy and safety of PCCDs. METHODS: Using the PRISMA guidelines a systematic search on PubMed, Web of Science, CINAHL, Embase and Scopus was carried out. Articles included were in English language and published between 1999 and 2015. Studies included were appraised with narrative data synthesis. RESULTS: Seven articles addressed mechanical properties of non-invasive external mechanical devices, six articles focused on physiological aspects, and three studies evaluated the pressure characteristics of these devices. We found 4 case reports regarding adverse effects. None of the studies identified addressed the cost effectiveness or pain relief issues related to the use of PCCDs. CONCLUSIONS: Based on available literature, PCCDs are widely used in the initial management of patients with suspected pelvic bleeding. There is evidence to suggest that external compression reduces disrupted pelvic rings. There are some complications reported following application of PCCDs. Hemorrhagic source and physiological effectiveness of PCCDs needs to be addressed in future studies. In the meantime judicious application of PCCDs will continue to be recommended.			2016				6515
Muscle Activity Onset Prior to Landing in Patients after Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Theisen, D., Rada, I., Brau, A., Gette, P. and Seil, R.				plos one	plos one	"Muscle activation during landing is paramount to stabilise lower limb joints and avoid abnormal movement patterns. Delayed muscle activity onset measured by electromyography (EMG) has been suggested to be associated with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury. Therefore, the aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to test the hypothesis if ACL-injured patients display different results for muscle onset timing during standard deceleration tasks compared to healthy control participants. PubMed, Embase, Scopus and ScienceDirect databases were systematically searched over the period from January 1980 to February 2015, yielding a total of 1461 citations. Six studies meeting inclusion criteria underwent quality assessment, data extraction and re-computing procedures for the meta-analysis. The quality was rated ""moderate"" for 2 studies and ""poor"" for 4. Patients included and procedures used were highly heterogeneous. The tasks investigated were single leg hopping, decelerating from running or walking, tested on a total of 102 ACL-injured participants and 86 controls. EMG analyses of the muscles vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, lateral and medial hamstrings revealed trivial and non-significant standardised mean differences (SMD<0.20; p>0.05) between patients and control participants. Furthermore, no differences were found between the contralateral leg of patients and controls for muscle activity onset of the medial and lateral gastrocnemius (SMD<0.20; p>0.05). Based on 3 studies, the involved legs of ACL-injured patients showed overall earlier muscle activity onset compared to control participants for the medial gastrocnemius (SMD = 0.5; p = 0.05). Similar results were found for the lateral gastrocnemius (SMD = 2.1; p<0.001), with a greater effect size but based only on a single study. We conclude that there are no differences between leg muscles of ACL-injured patients and healthy controls regarding the muscle activity onset during landing. However, current evidence is scarce and weak, which highlights the need for further research in this area."			2016				7702
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists and heart failure in type 2 diabetes: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized and observational studies		Li, L., Li, S., Liu, J., Deng, K., Busse, J. W., Vandvik, P. O., Wong, E., Sohani, Z. N., Bala, M. M., Rios, L. P., Malaga, G., Ebrahim, S., Shen, J., Zhang, L., Zhao, P., Chen, Q., Wang, Y., Guyatt, G. H. and Sun, X.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: The effect of glucagon-like peptide-1(GLP-1) receptor agonists on heart failure remains uncertain. We therefore conducted a systematic review to assess the possible impact of GLP-1 agonists on heart failure or hospitalization for heart failure in patients with type 2 diabetes. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and ClinicalTrials.gov to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and observational studies that addressed the effect of GLP-1 receptor agonists in adults with type 2 diabetes, and explicitly reported heart failure or hospitalization for heart failure. Two paired reviewers screened reports, collected data, and assessed the risk of bias. We pooled data from RCTs and observational studies separately, and used the GRADE approach to rate the quality of evidence. RESULTS: We identified 25 studies that were eligible for our review; 21 RCTs (n = 18,270) and 4 observational studies (n = 111,029). Low quality evidence from 20 RCTs suggested, if anything, a lower incidence of heart failure between GLP-1 agonists versus control (17/7,441 vs. 19/4,317; odds ratio (OR) 0.62, 95 % confidence interval (CI) 0.31 to 1.22; risk difference (RD) 19 fewer, 95 % CI 34 fewer to 11 more per 1000 over 5 years). Three cohort studies comparing GLP-1 agonists to alternative agents provided very low quality evidence that GLP-1 agonists do not increase the incidence of heart failure. One RCT provided moderate quality evidence that GLP-1 agonists were not associated with hospitalization for heart failure (lixisenatide vs placebo: 122/3,034 vs. 127/3,034; adjusted hazard ratio 0.96, 95 % CI 0.75 to 1.23; RD 4 fewer, 95 % CI 25 fewer to 23 more per 1000 over 5 years) and a case-control study provided very low quality evidence also suggesting no association (GLP-1 agonists vs. other anti-hyperglycemic drugs: 1118 cases and 17,626 controls, adjusted OR 0.67, 95 % CI 0.32 to 1.42). CONCLUSIONS: The current evidence suggests that GLP-1 agonists do not increase the risk of heart failure or hospitalization for heart failure among patients with type 2 diabetes.			2016				7686
Efficacy of PPV23 in Preventing Pneumococcal Pneumonia in Adults at Increased Risk - A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Schiffner-Rohe, J., Witt, A., Hemmerling, J., von Eiff, C. and Leverkus, F. W.				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: Pneumococcal community-acquired pneumonia (pCAP) is the most frequent form of pneumonia. The elderly and adults with underlying diseases are at an increased risk of developing pCAP. The 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23) was licensed over 30 years ago and is recommended as the standard intervention in many countries across the globe, although its efficacy continues to be debated. We performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) to investigate the effect of PPV23 for preventing pCAP in adults ?60 years of age. METHODS: An existing Cochrane Review was updated to Oct 2014 using a systematic literature search to select appropriate RCTs. DerSimonian and Laird random-effects meta-analyses were performed and odd ratios (OR) with 95%-confidence intervals (CI) and p-values were calculated for the descriptive analyses. Reasons for heterogeneity were explored by subgroup analyses. RESULTS: Meta-analysis of PPV23 efficacy included four studies. Three of them did not demonstrate efficacy for PPV23. The body of evidence indicated statistically significant heterogeneity (I2 = 78%, p = 0.004) that could be explained by subgroup analysis by ""study setting"". Further effect modifiers for pCAP were ""continent of trial"" (p<0.01), and ""method of pneumococcal diagnostics"" (p = 0.001). Subgroup analyses revealed that the only study showing efficacy for PPV23 was an outlier. Overall, the validity of the meta-analytic PPV23 efficacy assessment was confirmed by the meta-analysis of all-cause CAP including six studies. DISCUSSION: Inconsistencies in PPV23 treatment effects to prevent pCAP could solely be explained by one outlier study that was performed in nursing homes in Japan. The effect modifier ""method of pneumococcal diagnostics"" should be interpreted carefully, since methodological weaknesses are not restricted to one special method only, which would justify the exclusion of certain studies. Overall, we conclude from our meta-analysis that to date there is no proof that PPV23 can prevent pCAP in a general, community-dwelling elderly population."			2016				7739
The Evidence for Intravenous Theophylline Levels between 10-20mg/L in Children Suffering an Acute Exacerbation of Asthma: A Systematic Review		Cooney, L., Hawcutt, D. and Sinha, I.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Intravenous theophyllines are a second line treatment for children suffering an acute exacerbation of asthma. Various guidelines and formularies recommend aiming for serum theophylline levels between 10-20mg/l. This review aims to assess the evidence underpinning this recommendation. METHODS: A systematic review comparing outcomes of children who achieved serum theophylline concentrations between 10-20mg/l with those who did not. Primary outcomes were time until resolution of symptoms, mortality and need for mechanical ventilation. Secondary outcomes were date until discharge criteria are met, actual discharge, adverse effects and FEV1. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, CINAHL, CENTRAL and Web of Science. Search performed in October 2015. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: Interventional or observational studies utilizing intravenous theophyllines for an acute exacerbation of asthma in children where serum theophylline levels and clinical outcomes were measured. FINDINGS: 10 RCTs and 2 observational studies were included. Children with serum levels between 10-20mg/l did not have a reduction in duration of symptoms, length of hospital stay or need for mechanical ventilation or better spirometric results compared with levels <10mg/l. Levels above 20mg/l are not associated with higher rates of adverse effects. This study is limited due to heterogeneity in the way theophylline levels were reported and poor surveillance of adverse effects across studies. CONCLUSION: Dosing strategies aiming for levels between 10-20mg/l are not associated with better outcomes. Clinicians should rely on clinical outcomes and not serum levels when using intravenous theophyllines in children suffering an acute exacerbation of asthma.			2016				7322
Aspirin in the Treatment of Cancer: Reductions in Metastatic Spread and in Mortality: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses of Published Studies		Elwood, P. C., Morgan, G., Pickering, J. E., Galante, J., Weightman, A. L., Morris, D., Kelson, M. and Dolwani, S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Low-dose aspirin has been shown to reduce the incidence of cancer, but its role in the treatment of cancer is uncertain. OBJECTIVES: We conducted a systematic search of the scientific literature on aspirin taken by patients following a diagnosis of cancer, together with appropriate meta-analyses. METHODS: Searches were completed in Medline and Embase in December 2015 using a pre-defined search strategy. References and abstracts of all the selected papers were scanned and expert colleagues were contacted for additional studies. Two reviewers applied pre-determined eligibility criteria (cross-sectional, cohort and controlled studies, and aspirin taken after a diagnosis of cancer), assessed study quality and extracted data on cancer cause-specific deaths, overall mortality and incidence of metastases. Random effects meta-analyses and planned sub-group analyses were completed separately for observational and experimental studies. Heterogeneity and publication bias were assessed in sensitivity analyses and appropriate omissions made. Papers were examined for any reference to bleeding and authors of the papers were contacted and questioned. RESULTS: Five reports of randomised trials were identified, together with forty two observational studies: sixteen on colorectal cancer, ten on breast and ten on prostate cancer mortality. Pooling of eleven observational reports of the effect of aspirin on cause-specific mortality from colon cancer, after the omission of one report identified on the basis of sensitivity analyses, gave a hazard ratio (HR) of 0.76 (95% CI 0.66, 0.88) with reduced heterogeneity (P = 0.04). The cause specific mortality in five reports of patients with breast cancer showed significant heterogeneity (P<0.0005) but the omission of one outlying study reduced heterogeneity (P = 0.19) and led to an HR = 0.87 (95% CI 0.69, 1.09). Heterogeneity between nine studies of prostate cancer was significant, but again, the omission of one study led to acceptable homogeneity (P = 0.26) and an overall HR = 0.89 (95% CI 0.79-0.99). Six single studies of other cancers suggested reductions in cause specific mortality by aspirin, and in five the effect is statistically significant. There were no significant differences between the pooled HRs for the three main cancers and after the omission of three reports already identified in sensitivity analyses heterogeneity was removed and revealed an overall HR of 0.83 (95% CI 0.76-0.90). A mutation of PIK3CA was present in about 20% of patients, and appeared to explain most of the reduction in colon cancer mortality by aspirin. Data were not adequate to examine the importance of this or any other marker in the effect of aspirin in the other cancers. On bleeding attributable to aspirin two reports stated that there had been no side effect or bleeding attributable to aspirin. Authors on the other reports were written to and 21 replied stating that no data on bleeding were available. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: The study highlights the need for randomised trials of aspirin treatment in a variety of cancers. While these are awaited there is an urgent need for evidence from observational studies of aspirin and the less common cancers, and for more evidence of the relevance of possible bio-markers of the aspirin effect on a wide variety of cancers. In the meantime it is urged that patients in whom a cancer is diagnosed should be given details of this research, together with its limitations, to enable each to make an informed decision as to whether or not to take low-dose aspirin. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW PROTOCOL NUMBER: CRD42015014145.			2016				8145
Systematic review of interventions to improve the psychological well-being of general practitioners		Murray, M., Murray, L. and Donnelly, M.				bmc family practice	bmc family practice	BACKGROUND: The health of doctors who work in primary care is threatened by workforce and workload issues. There is a need to find and appraise ways in which to protect their mental health, including how to achieve the broader, positive outcome of well-being. Our primary outcome was to evaluate systematically the research evidence regarding the effectiveness of interventions designed to improve General Practitioner (GP) well-being across two continua; psychopathology (mental ill-health focus) and 'languishing to flourishing' (positive mental health focus). In addition we explored the extent to which developments in well-being research may be integrated within existing approaches to design an intervention that will promote mental health and prevent mental illness among these doctors. METHODS: Medline, Embase, Cinahl, PsychINFO, Cochrane Register of Trials and Web of Science were searched from inception to January 2015 for studies where General Practitioners and synonyms were the primary participants. Eligible interventions included mental ill-health prevention strategies (e.g. promotion of early help-seeking) and mental health promotion programmes (e.g. targeting the development of protective factors at individual and organizational levels). A control group was the minimum design requirement for study inclusion and primary outcomes had to be assessed by validated measures of well-being or mental ill-health. Titles and abstracts were assessed independently by two reviewers with 99 % agreement and full papers were appraised critically using validated tools. RESULTS: Only four studies (with a total of 997 GPs) from 5392 titles met inclusion criteria. The studies reported statistically significant improvement in self-reported mental ill-health. Two interventions used cognitive-behavioural techniques, one was mindfulness-based and one fed-back GHQ scores and self-help information. CONCLUSION: There is an urgent need for high quality, controlled studies in GP well-being. Research on improving GP well-being is limited by focusing mainly on stressors and not giving systematic attention to the development of positive mental health.			2016				9114
The use of inhaled antibiotic therapy in the treatment of ventilator-associated pneumonia and tracheobronchitis: a systematic review		Russell, C. J., Shiroishi, M. S., Siantz, E., Wu, B. W. and Patino, C. M.				bmc pulmonary medicine	bmc pulmonary medicine	"BACKGROUND: Ventilator-associated respiratory infections (tracheobronchitis, pneumonia) contribute significant morbidity and mortality to adults receiving care in intensive care units (ICU). Administration of broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotics, the current standard of care, may have systemic adverse effects. The efficacy of aerosolized antibiotics for treatment of ventilator-associated respiratory infections remains unclear. Our objective was to conduct a systematic review of the efficacy of aerosolized antibiotics in the treatment of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) and tracheobronchitis (VAT), using the Cochrane Collaboration guidelines. METHODS: We conducted a search of three databases (PubMed, Web of Knowledge and the Cochrane Collaboration) for randomized, controlled trials studying the use of nebulized antibiotics in VAP and VAT that measured clinical cure (e.g., change in Clinical Pulmonary Infection Score) as an outcome measurement. We augmented the electronic searches with hand searches of the references for any narrative review articles as well as any article included in the systematic review. Included studies were examined for risk of bias using the Cochrane Handbook's ""Risk of Bias"" assessment tool. RESULTS: Six studies met full inclusion criteria. For the systemic review's primary outcome (clinical cure), two studies found clinically and statistically significant improvements in measures of VAP cure while four found no statistically significant difference in measurements of cure. No studies found inferiority of aerosolized antibiotics. The included studies had various degrees of biases, particularly in the performance and detection bias domains. Given that outcome measures of clinical cure were not uniform, we were unable to conduct a meta-analysis. CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence for the use of inhaled antibiotic therapy as primary or adjuvant treatment of VAP or VAT. Additional, better-powered randomized-controlled trials are needed to assess the efficacy of inhaled antibiotic therapy for VAP and VAT."			2016				7130
The Effect of Virtual Reality Training on Balance and Gait Ability in Patients With Stroke: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		de Rooij, I. J., van de Port, I. G. and Meijer, J. G.				physical therapy	physical therapy	BACKGROUND: Virtual reality (VR) training is considered as a promising novel therapy for balance and gait recovery in patients with stroke. PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to conduct a systematic literature review with meta-analysis to investigate whether balance or gait training using VR is more effective than conventional balance or gait training in patients with stroke. DATA SOURCES: Literature search was carried out in the databases PubMed, Embase, Medline and Cochrane Library up to December 1st, 2015. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized controlled trials that compared the effect of balance or gait training with and without VR on balance and gait ability in patients with stroke were included. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Twenty-one studies with median PEDro score of 6.0 were included. The included studies demonstrated a significant greater effect of VR training on balance and gait recovery after stroke compared to conventional therapy as indicated with the most frequently used measures: gait speed, Berg Balance Scale and Timed Up and Go. VR was more effective to train gait and balance than conventional training when VR interventions were added to conventional therapy as well as when time dose was matched. LIMITATIONS: The presence of publication bias and diversity in included studies. CONCLUSIONS: The results suggested that VR training is more effective than balance or gait training without VR for improving balance or gait ability in patients with stroke. Future studies are recommended to investigate the effect of VR on participation level with an adequate follow-up period. Overall, a positive and promising effect of VR training on balance and gait ability is expected.			2016				7796
Fish oil- and soy oil-based lipid emulsions in neonatal parenteral nutrition: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Kotiya, P., Zhao, X., Cheng, P., Zhu, X., Xiao, Z. and Wang, J.				european journal of clinical nutrition	european journal of clinical nutrition	BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: The precise role of fish oil-based lipid emulsions (FBL=any lipid emulsion containing any amount of fish oil) and soy oil-based lipid emulsions (SBL=any lipid emulsion not containing fish oil or containing at least 50% soy oil) in neonatal parenteral nutrition (PN) needs to be explored. SUBJECTS/METHODS: The PubMed, MedLine and Google Scholar databases were searched for randomised control trials in which PN with FBL and SBL was the only difference between intervention and control groups. Methodological quality was assessed based on the Cochrane handbook for systemic reviews and Jadad's score. Revman 5.2 software was used for meta-analysis. RESULTS: Of 420 trials, 25 met the inclusion criteria. The aggregate results showed that both FBLs and SBLs are beneficial. FBLs were associated with significantly lower incidences of cholestasis (relative risk (RR)=0.50; 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.27-0.92, P=0.03) compared with SBLs. FBLs also had a tendency to improve the rates of weight gain, increase in head circumference and the time to regain birth weight (mean difference (MD)=0.24; 95% CI=-0.63-0.15). SBLs were associated with reduced duration of respiratory support (MD=2.22, 95% CI=0.35-4.09, P=0.02) and mortality rate in the first 28 days (RR=1.24, 95% CI=-0.72-2.13). CONCLUSIONS: Both FBLs and SBLs are beneficial for neonatal PN. FBLs reduce cholestasis, and SBLs reduce the duration of respiratory support.European Journal of Clinical Nutrition advance online publication, 4 May 2016; doi:10.1038/ejcn.2016.69.			2016				8644
Interventions to Improve HPV Vaccine Uptake: A Systematic Review		Walling, E. B., Benzoni, N., Dornfeld, J., Bhandari, R., Sisk, B. A., Garbutt, J. and Colditz, G.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: The human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine is a safe, effective cancer prevention method that is underutilized in the United States. Despite increased understanding of barriers to vaccination, rates remain low. Globally, developed and developing nations have achieved high rates of vaccination. OBJECTIVE: Identification of effective strategies is necessary to optimize uptake of the HPV vaccine. We systematically reviewed the literature for national and international interventions that have successfully increased HPV vaccine uptake. DATA SOURCES: We used a standardized protocol to search for articles published between January 1, 2006, and April 30, 2015, in 3 electronic databases: PubMed, Scopus, and Embase. STUDY SELECTION: We identified interventions designed to increase HPV vaccine uptake among adolescents and young adults aged 11 to 26 years. All study designs were acceptable. Only articles that included postintervention vaccination rates were included. DATA EXTRACTION: Two authors independently reviewed each article for data extraction and quality assessment. Interventions were classified according to the Community Preventive Service Task Force guide. RESULTS: Results were reported according to the RE-AIM (Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance) framework. Fifty-one articles met eligibility criteria: 2 informational interventions, 18 behavioral interventions, and 31 environmental interventions. Factors associated with HPV vaccine uptake were increased vaccine availability, decreased financial barriers, and interventions targeting both providers and patients. LIMITATIONS: Lack of consistent RE-AIM metric reporting, limiting our ability to assess intervention validity and quality. CONCLUSIONS: Population-based vaccination strategies that increased vaccine availability reached the greatest number of adolescents and were most successful in achieving high rates of vaccination.			2016				8351
Impact of Community-Based DOT on Tuberculosis Treatment Outcomes: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Zhang, H., Ehiri, J., Yang, H., Tang, S. and Li, Y.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Poor adherence to tuberculosis (TB) treatment can lead to prolonged infectivity and poor treatment outcomes. Directly observed treatment (DOT) seeks to improve adherence to TB treatment by observing patients while they take their anti-TB medication. Although community-based DOT (CB-DOT) programs have been widely studied and promoted, their effectiveness has been inconsistent. The aim of this study was to critical appraise and summarize evidence of the effects of CB-DOT on TB treatment outcomes. METHODS: Studies published up to the end of February 2015 were identified from three major international literature databases: Medline/PubMed, EBSCO, and EMBASE. Unpublished data from the grey literature were identified through Google and Google Scholar searches. RESULTS: Seventeen studies involving 12,839 pulmonary TB patients (PTB) in eight randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and nine cohort studies from 12 countries met the criteria for inclusion in this review and 14 studies were included in meta-analysis. Compared with clinic-based DOT, pooled results of RCTs for all PTB cases (including smear-negative or -positive, new or retreated TB cases) and smear-positive PTB cases indicated that CB-DOT promoted successful treatment [pooled RRs (95%CIs): 1.11 (1.02-1.19) for all PTB cases and 1.11 (1.02-1.19) for smear-positive PTB cases], and completed treatment [pooled RRs (95%CIs): 1.74(1.05, 2.90) for all PTB cases and 2.22(1.16, 4.23) for smear-positive PTB cases], reduced death [pooled RRs (95%CIs): 0.44 (0.26-0.72) for all PTB cases and 0.39 (0.23-0.66) for smear-positive PTB cases], and transfer out [pooled RRs (95%CIs): 0.37 (0.23-0.61) for all PTB cases and 0.42 (0.25-0.70) for smear-positive PTB cases]. Pooled results of all studies (RCTs and cohort studies) with all PTB cases demonstrated that CB-DOT promoted successful treatment [pooled RR (95%CI): 1.13 (1.03-1.24)] and curative treatment [pooled RR (95%CI): 1.24 (1.04-1.48)] compared with self-administered treatment. CONCLUSIONS: CB-DOT did improved TB treatment outcomes according to the pooled results of included studies in this review. Studies on strategies for implementation of patient-centered and community-centered CB-DOT deserve further attention.			2016				8897
Contemporary Management Strategies for Chronic Type B Aortic Dissections: A Systematic Review		Kamman, A. V., de Beaufort, H. W., van Bogerijen, G. H., Nauta, F. J., Heijmen, R. H., Moll, F. L., van Herwaarden, J. A. and Trimarchi, S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Currently, the optimal management strategy for chronic type B aortic dissections (CBAD) is unknown. Therefore, we systematically reviewed the literature to compare results of open surgical repair (OSR), standard thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) or branched and fenestrated TEVAR (BEVAR/FEVAR) for CBAD. METHODS: EMBASE and MEDLINE databases were searched for eligible studies between January 2000 and October 2015. Studies describing outcomes of OSR, TEVAR, B/FEVAR, or all, for CBAD patients initially treated with medical therapy, were included. Primary endpoints were early mortality, and one-year and five-year survival. Secondary endpoints included occurrence of complications. Furthermore, a Time until Treatment Equipoise (TUTE) graph was constructed. RESULTS: Thirty-five articles were selected for systematic review. A total of 1081 OSR patients, 1397 TEVAR patients and 61 B/FEVAR patients were identified. Early mortality ranged from 5.6% to 21.0% for OSR, 0.0% to 13.7% for TEVAR, and 0.0% to 9.7% for B/FEVAR. For OSR, one-year and five-year survival ranged 72.0%-92.0% and 53.0%-86.7%, respectively. For TEVAR, one-year survival was 82.9%-100.0% and five-year survival 70.0%-88.9%. For B/FEVAR only one-year survival was available, ranging between 76.4% and 100.0%. Most common postoperative complications included stroke (OSR 0.0%-13.3%, TEVAR 0.0%-11.8%), spinal cord ischemia (OSR 0.0%-16.4%, TEVAR 0.0%-12.5%, B/FEVAR 0.0%-12.9%) and acute renal failure (OSR 0.0%-33.3%, TEVAR 0.0%-34.4%, B/FEVAR 0.0%-3.2%). Most common long-term complications after OSR included aneurysm formation (5.8%-20.0%) and new type A dissection (1.7-2.2%). Early complications after TEVAR included retrograde dissection (0.0%-7.1%), malperfusion (1.3%-9.4%), cardiac complications (0.0%-5.9%) and rupture (0.5%-5.0%). Most common long-term complications after TEVAR were rupture (0.5%-7.1%), endoleaks (0.0%-15.8%) and cardiac complications (5.9%-7.1%). No short-term aortic rupture or malperfusion was observed after B/FEVAR. Long-term complications included malperfusion (6.5%) and endoleaks (0.0%-66.7%). Reintervention rates after OSR, TEVAR and B/FEVAR were 5.8%-29.0%, 4.3%-47.4% and 0.0%-53.3%, respectively. TUTE for OSR was 2.7 years, for TEVAR 9.9 months and for B/FEVAR 10.3 months. CONCLUSION: We found a limited early survival benefit of standard TEVAR over OSR for CBAD. Complication rates after TEVAR are higher, but complications after OSR are usually more serious. Initial experiences with B/FEVAR show its feasibility, but long-term results are needed to compare it to OSR and standard TEVAR. We conclude that optimal treatment of CBAD remains debatable and merits a patient specific decision. TUTE seems a feasible and useful tool to better understand management outcomes of CBAD.			2016				7354
Systematic review on human resources for health interventions to improve maternal health outcomes: evidence from low- and middle-income countries		Lassi, Z. S., Musavi, N. B., Maliqi, B., Mansoor, N., de Francisco, A., Toure, K. and Bhutta, Z. A.				human resources for health	human resources for health	There is a broad consensus and evidence that shows qualified, accessible, and responsive human resources for health (HRH) can make a major impact on the health of the populations. At the same time, there is widespread recognition that HRH crises particularly in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) impede the achievement of better health outcomes/targets. In order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), equitable access to a skilled and motivated health worker within a performing health system is need to be ensured. This review contributes to the vast pool of literature towards the assessment of HRH for maternal health and is focused on interventions delivered by skilled birth attendants (SBAs). Studies were included if (a) any HRH interventions in management system, policy, finance, education, partnership, and leadership were implemented; (b) these were related to SBA; (c) reported outcomes related to maternal health; (d) the studies were conducted in LMICs; and (e) studies were in English. Studies were excluded if traditional birth attendants and/or community health workers were trained. The review identified 25 studies which revealed reasons for poor maternal health outcomes in LMICs despite the efforts and policies implemented throughout these years. This review suggested an urgent and immediate need for formative evidence-based research on effective HRH interventions for improved maternal health outcomes. Other initiatives such as education and empowerment of women, alleviating poverty, establishing gender equality, and provision of infrastructure, equipment, drugs, and supplies are all integral components that are required to achieve SDGs by reducing maternal mortality and improving maternal health.			2016				9742
A systematic review of interventions to improve prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission service delivery and promote retention		Ambia, J. and Mandala, J.				journal of the international aids society	journal of the international aids society	INTRODUCTION: The success of prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV (PMTCT) is dependent upon high retention of mother-infant pairs within these programmes. This is a systematic review to evaluate the effectiveness of interventions that aim to improve PMTCT service delivery and promote retention throughout the PMTCT steps. METHODS: Selected databases were searched for studies published in English (up to September 2015). Outcomes of interest included antiretroviral (ARV) drugs or antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation among HIV-positive pregnant and/or breastfeeding women and their infants, retention into PMTCT programs, the uptake of early infant diagnosis (EID) of HIV and infant HIV status. Risk ratios and random-effect meta-analysis were used in the analysis. RESULTS: Interventions assessed in the 34 identified studies included male partner involvement in PMTCT, peer mentoring, the use of community health workers (CHWs), mobile phone-based reminders, conditional cash transfer, training of midwives, integration of PMTCT services and enhanced referral. Five studies (two randomized) that evaluated mobile phone-based interventions showed a statistically significant increase (pooled RR 1.18; 95% CI 1.05 to 1.32, I(2)=83%) in uptake of EID of HIV at around six weeks postpartum. Male partner involvement in PMTCT was associated with reductions in infant HIV transmission (pooled RR 0.61; 95% CI 0.39 to 0.94, I(2)=0%) in four studies (one randomized). Four studies (three randomized) that were grounded on psychological interventions reported non-significant results (pooled RR 1.01; 95% CI 0.93 to 1.09, I(2)=69%) in increasing ARV/ART uptake among HIV-positive pregnant and/or breastfeeding women and infant HIV testing (pooled RR 1.00; 95% CI 0.94 to 1.07, I(2)=45%). The effect of the other interventions on the effectiveness of improving PMTCT uptake was unclear. Heterogeneity of interventions limits these findings. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that mobile phone-based reminders may increase the uptake of EID of HIV. Studies on male partner involvement in PMTCT reported reductions in infant HIV transmission. Stronger evidence is needed and future studies should determine the long-term effects of these interventions in improving retention throughout the PMTCT steps.			2016				7833
Gemcitabine plus cisplatin versus gemcitabine alone in the treatment of pancreatic cancer: a meta-analysis		Ouyang, G., Liu, Z., Huang, S., Li, Q., Xiong, L., Miao, X. and Wen, Y.				world journal of surgical oncology	world journal of surgical oncology	BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer ranks as the fourth leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the USA. And gemcitabine has been the standard of care for advanced pancreatic cancer. However, a combined use of gemcitabine plus cisplatin (GemCis) has shown promising efficacies in pancreatic cancer patients. Here, system review and meta-analysis were performed to compare the efficacy and safety of GemCis versus gemcitabine (Gem) alone in the treatment of pancreatic cancer. METHODS: The databases of MEDLINE (PubMed), EMBASE, and Cochrane Library were systematically searched for retrieving the relevant publications prior to 31 September 2014. The primary end point was overall survival (OS) and secondary end points included 6-month survival, 1 year survival, overall response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), time to progression/progression-free survival (TTP/PFS), and toxicities. RESULTS: A total of nine randomized controlled trials involving 1354 patients were included for systematic evaluations. Overall, as compared with Gem alone, GemCis significantly improved the 6-month survival rate (relative risk (RR)?=?1.303, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.090-1.558, P?=?0.004), ORR (RR?=?1.482, 95% CI 1.148-1.913, P?=?0.003), PFS/TTP (hazard ratio (HR)?=?0.87; 95% CI 0.78-0.93, P?=?0.022), and the overall toxicities (RR?=?2.164, 95% CI 1.837-2.549, P?=?0.000). However, no significance difference existed in overall survival (HR?=?0.90, 95% CI 0.80-1.42, P?=?1.02), 1-year survival rate (RR?=?0.956, 95% CI 0.770-1.187, P?=?0.684), and CBR (RR?=?0.854, 95% CI 0.681-1.072, P?=?0.175). As for grade III/IV toxicity, seven kinds of toxicities were higher in the GemCis group. However, no significant inter-group statistical differences existed in the incidence of leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, or diarrhea. CONCLUSIONS: Despite a higher incidence of three-fourths toxicity, GemCis offers better outcomes of ORR, PFS/TTP, and 6-month survival, which indicates GemCis may be a promising therapy for pancreatic cancer.			2016				10928
Web-based interventions for prevention and treatment of perinatal mood disorders: a systematic review		Lee, E. W., Denison, F. C., Hor, K. and Reynolds, R. M.				bmc pregnancy and childbirth	bmc pregnancy and childbirth	BACKGROUND: Perinatal depression is strikingly common with a prevalence of 10-15%. The adverse effects of perinatal depression on maternal and child health are profound with considerable costs. Despite this, few women seek medical attention. E-health, providing healthcare via the Internet is an accessible and effective solution for the treatment of depression in the general population. We aimed to conduct a systematic review of web-based interventions for the prevention and treatment of mood disorders in the perinatal period, defined as the start of pregnancy to 1 year post-partum. METHODS: Six databases were searched until 26(th) March 2015. Two researchers independently screened articles for eligibility. Of the 547 screened articles, four met the inclusion criteria. These included three randomised-controlled trials and one feasibility trial, with total data from 1274 participants. MOOSE and PRISMA guidelines were adhered to for the conduct and reporting of the systematic review. RESULTS: All studies were conducted in the post-partum period. All reported an improvement in maternal mood following intervention. A significant improvement in depressive symptoms was measured using validated rating scales, such as the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS), either at post-treatment or follow-up which ranged from 3 to 12 months post study completion. For the two RCTs utilising the EPDS, the EPDS score reductions were (mean?±?SEM) 8.52?±?0.22 (Range 19.46 to10.94) and 9.19?±?0.63 (Range, 20.24 to 11.05) for treatment groups and 5.16?±?0.25 (Range 19.44 to 14.28) and 6.81?±?0.71 (Range 21.07 to 14.26) for comparator groups. However attrition within studies ranged from 13 to 61%. One study was rated as 'good' quality. CONCLUSIONS: Preliminary data suggests web-based therapies for perinatal depression delivered in the post-partum period may play a role in improving maternalmood but more studies are needed, particularly with interventions delivered antenatally. Further research is needed to address the limitations of the existing evidence base.			2016				6148
Medical Therapies for Uterine Fibroids - A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis of Randomised Controlled Trials		Gurusamy, K. S., Vaughan, J., Fraser, I. S., Best, L. M. and Richards, T.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Uterine fibroids are common, often symptomatic and a third of women need repeated time off work. Consequently 25% to 50% of women with fibroids receive surgical treatment, namely myomectomy or hysterectomy. Hysterectomy is the definitive treatment as fibroids are hormone dependent and frequently recurrent. Medical treatment aims to control symptoms in order to replace or delay surgery. This may improve the outcome of surgery and prevent recurrence. PURPOSE: To determine whether any medical treatment can be recommended in the treatment of women with fibroids about to undergo surgery and in those for whom surgery is not planned based on currently available evidence. STUDY SELECTION: Two authors independently identified randomised controlled trials (RCT) of all pharmacological treatments aimed at the treatment of fibroids from a list of references obtained by formal search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane library, Science Citation Index, and ClinicalTrials.gov until December 2013. DATA EXTRACTION: Two authors independently extracted data from identified studies. DATA SYNTHESIS: A Bayesian network meta-analysis was performed following the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence-Decision Support Unit guidelines. Odds ratios, rate ratios, or mean differences with 95% credible intervals (CrI) were calculated. RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: A total of 75 RCT met the inclusion criteria, 47 of which were included in the network meta-analysis. The overall quality of evidence was very low. The network meta-analysis showed differing results for different outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: There is currently insufficient evidence to recommend any medical treatment in the management of fibroids. Certain treatments have future promise however further, well designed RCTs are needed.			2016				8817
A systematic review of strategies to recruit and retain primary care doctors		Verma, P., Ford, J. A., Stuart, A., Howe, A., Everington, S. and Steel, N.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	BACKGROUND: There is a workforce crisis in primary care. Previous research has looked at the reasons underlying recruitment and retention problems, but little research has looked at what works to improve recruitment and retention. The aim of this systematic review is to evaluate interventions and strategies used to recruit and retain primary care doctors internationally. METHODS: A systematic review was undertaken. MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL and grey literature were searched from inception to January 2015. Articles assessing interventions aimed at recruiting or retaining doctors in high income countries, applicable to primary care doctors were included. No restrictions on language or year of publication. The first author screened all titles and abstracts and a second author screened 20 %. Data extraction was carried out by one author and checked by a second. Meta-analysis was not possible due to heterogeneity. RESULTS: Fifty-one studies assessing 42 interventions were retrieved. Interventions were categorised into thirteen groups: financial incentives (n?=?11), recruiting rural students (n?=?6), international recruitment (n?=?4), rural or primary care focused undergraduate placements (n?=?3), rural or underserved postgraduate training (n?=?3), well-being or peer support initiatives (n?=?3), marketing (n?=?2), mixed interventions (n?=?5), support for professional development or research (n?=?5), retainer schemes (n?=?4), re-entry schemes (n?=?1), specialised recruiters or case managers (n?=?2) and delayed partnerships (n?=?2). Studies were of low methodological quality with no RCTs and only 15 studies with a comparison group. Weak evidence supported the use of postgraduate placements in underserved areas, undergraduate rural placements and recruiting students to medical school from rural areas. There was mixed evidence about financial incentives. A marketing campaign was associated with lower recruitment. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first systematic review of interventions to improve recruitment and retention of primary care doctors. Although the evidence base for recruiting and care doctors is weak and more high quality research is needed, this review found evidence to support undergraduate and postgraduate placements in underserved areas, and selective recruitment of medical students. Other initiatives covered may have potential to improve recruitment and retention of primary care practitioners, but their effectiveness has not been established.			2016				5932
Physical Rehabilitation Interventions for Post-mTBI Symptoms Lasting Greater Than Two Weeks: A Systematic Review		Quatman-Yates, C., Cupp, A., Gunsch, C., Haley, T., Vaculik, S. and Kujawa, D.				physical therapy	physical therapy	BACKGROUND: Heightened awareness of the lasting effects of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) has amplified interest in interventions that facilitate recovery from persistent post-mTBI symptoms. PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to systematically review the literature to identify potential physical rehabilitation interventions that are safe, feasible, and appropriate for physical therapists to utilize with patients with persistent mTBI-related symptoms. DATA SOURCES: The electronic databases PubMed, Cochrane Library, CINHAL, Scopus, SPORTDiscus, and Web of Science were systematically searched from study inception until June 2015. STUDY SELECTION: Studies were included if they utilized physical rehabilitation interventions and the study's participants had a diagnosis of mTBI, a mean age of 8 years or older, and symptoms persisting an average of 2 weeks or more. Exclusion criteria included blast injuries, diagnosis of moderate or severe TBI, or psychosis. DATA EXTRACTION: Data extraction and methodological risk of bias assessments were performed for each study. DATA SYNTHESIS: Eight studies with a range of study designs, intervention types, and outcome measures were included. The interventions investigated by the included studies were categorized into three types - physiologic, vestibulo-ocular, and cervico-genic. LIMITATIONS: The identified studies had several significant limitations including: small sample sizes and low-level study designs. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this systematic review indicate that several physical rehabilitation options with minimal risk for negative outcomes are available for treating patients experiencing persistent post-mTBI symptoms. These include: vestibular, manual, and progressive exercise interventions. Conclusions surrounding efficacy and ideal dosing parameters for these interventions are limited at this time due to the small number of studies, the range of interventional protocols, and lower levels of study design.			2016				6457
Systematic review and meta-analysis of music interventions in hypertension treatment: a quest for answers		Kühlmann, A. Y., Etnel, J. R., Roos-Hesselink, J. W., Jeekel, J., Bogers, A. J. and Takkenberg, J. J.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: Adverse effects, treatment resistance and high costs associated with pharmacological treatment of hypertension have led to growing interest in non-pharmacological complementary therapies such as music interventions. This meta-analysis aims to provide an overview of reported evidence on the efficacy of music interventions in the treatment of hypertension. METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted for publications on the effect of music interventions on blood pressure in adult hypertensive subjects published between January 1990-June 2014. Randomized controlled trials with a follow-up duration ?28 days were included. Blood pressure measures were pooled using inverse variance weighting. RESULTS: Of the 1689 abstracts reviewed, 10 randomized controlled trials were included. Random-effects pooling of the music intervention groups showed a trend toward a decrease in mean systolic blood pressure (SBP) from 144 mmHg(95 % CI:137-152) to 134 mmHg(95 % CI:124-144), and in mean diastolic blood pressure (DBP) from 84 mmHg(95 % CI:78-89) to 78 mmHg(95 % CI:73-84). Fixed-effect analysis of a subgroup of 3 trials with valid control groups showed a significant decrease in pooled mean SBP and DBP in both intervention and control groups. A comparison between music intervention groups and control groups was not possible due to unavailable measures of dispersion. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review and meta-analysis revealed a trend towards a decrease in blood pressure in hypertensive patients who received music interventions, but failed to establish a cause-effect relationship between music interventions and blood pressure reduction. Considering the potential value of this safe, low-cost intervention, well-designed, high quality and sufficiently powered randomized studies assessing the efficacy of music interventions in the treatment of hypertension are warranted.			2016				6357
Tocolysis for inhibiting preterm birth in extremely preterm birth, multiple gestations and in growth-restricted fetuses: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Miyazaki, C., Moreno, R. G., Ota, E., Swa, T., Oladapo, O. T. and Mori, R.				reproductive health	reproductive health	This systematic review was to identify available evidence on the effectiveness of tocolysis in inhibiting preterm delivery for women with threatened extremely preterm birth, multiple gestations, and growth-restricted babies, and their infants' outcomes. A comprehensive search using MEDLINE, Embase, the Cochrane Library, CINAHL, POPLINE and the WHO Global Health Library databases was conducted on 14 February 2014. For selection criteria, randomized controlled trials and non-randomized studies that compared tocolysis treatment to placebo or no treatment were considered. Selection of eligible studies, critical appraisal of the included studies, data collection, meta-analyses, and assessment of evidence quality were performed in accordance with the Cochrane Collaboration's guidance and validated assessment criteria. The search identified seven studies for extremely preterm birth, in which three were randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and four were non-randomized studies (non-RCTs). There were no eligible studies identified for women with multiple pregnancy and growth-restricted fetuses. Meta-analyses indicated no significant difference was found for the relative effectiveness of tocolytics versus placebo for prolonging pregnancy in women with extremely preterm birth (RR 1.04, 95 % CI 0.83 to 1.31) or reducing the rate of perinatal deaths (RR 2.22, 95 % CI 0.26 to 19.24). In summary, there is no evidence to draw conclusions on the effectiveness of tocolytic therapy for women with threatened extremely preterm birth, multiple gestations, and growth-restricted babies.			2016				7571
The Effectiveness of Emergency Department Visit Reduction Programs: A Systematic Review		Raven, M. C., Kushel, M., Ko, M. J., Penko, J. and Bindman, A. B.				annals of emergency medicine	annals of emergency medicine	STUDY OBJECTIVE: Previous reviews of emergency department (ED) visit reduction programs have not required that studies meet a minimum quality level and have therefore included low-quality studies in forming conclusions about the benefits of these programs. We conduct a systematic review of ED visit reduction programs after judging the quality of the research. We aim to determine whether these programs are effective in reducing ED visits and whether they result in adverse events. METHODS: We identified studies of ED visit reduction programs conducted in the United States and targeted toward adult patients from January 1, 2003, to December 31, 2014. We evaluated study quality according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation criteria and included moderate- to high-quality studies in our review. We categorized interventions according to whether they targeted high-risk or low-acuity populations. RESULTS: We evaluated the quality of 38 studies and found 13 to be of moderate or high quality. Within these 13 studies, only case management consistently reduced ED use. Studies of ED copayments had mixed results. We did not find evidence for any increase in adverse events (hospitalization rates or mortality) from the interventions in either high-risk or low-acuity populations. CONCLUSION: High-quality, peer-reviewed evidence about ED visit reduction programs is limited. For most program types, we were unable to draw definitive conclusions about effectiveness. Future ED visit reduction programs should be regarded as demonstrations in need of rigorous evaluation.			2016				6246
Educational interventions to train healthcare professionals in end-of-life communication: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Chung, H. O., Oczkowski, S. J., Hanvey, L., Mbuagbaw, L. and You, J. J.				bmc medical education	bmc medical education	BACKGROUND: Practicing healthcare professionals and graduates exiting training programs are often ill-equipped to facilitate important discussions about end-of-life care with patients and their families. We conducted a systematic review to evaluate the effectiveness of educational interventions aimed at providing healthcare professionals with training in end-of-life communication skills, compared to usual curriculum. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, ERIC and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from the date of inception to July 2014 for randomized control trials (RCT) and prospective observational studies of educational training interventions to train healthcare professionals in end-of-life communication skills. To be eligible, interventions had to provide communication skills training related to end-of-life decision making; other interventions (e.g. breaking bad news, providing palliation) were excluded. Our primary outcomes were self-efficacy, knowledge and end-of-life communication scores with standardized patient encounters. Sufficiently similar studies were pooled in a meta-analysis. The quality of evidence was assessed using GRADE. RESULTS: Of 5727 candidate articles, 20 studies (6 RCTs, 14 Observational) were included in this review. Compared to usual teaching, educational interventions to train healthcare professionals in end-of-life communication skills were associated with greater self-efficacy (8 studies, standardized mean difference [SMD] 0.57;95 % confidence interval [CI] 0.40-0.75; P?<?0.001; very low quality evidence), more knowledge (4 studies, SMD 0.76;95 % CI 0.40-1.12; p?<?0.001; low quality evidence), and improvements in communication scores (8 studies, SMD 0.69; 95 % CI 0.41-0.96; p?<?0.001; very low quality evidence). There was insufficient evidence to determine whether these educational interventions affect patient-level outcomes. CONCLUSION: Very low to low quality evidence suggests that end-of-life communication training may improve healthcare professionals' self-efficacy, knowledge, and EoL communication scores compared to usual teaching. Further studies comparing two active educational interventions are recommended with a continued focus on contextually relevant high-level outcomes. TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42014012913.			2016				6408
Development of a complex intervention to support the initiation of advance care planning by general practitioners in patients at risk of deteriorating or dying: a phase 0-1 study		De Vleminck, A., Houttekier, D., Deliens, L., Vander Stichele, R. and Pardon, K.				bmc palliative care	bmc palliative care	BACKGROUND: Most patients with life-limiting illnesses are treated and cared for over a long period of time in primary care and guidelines suggest that ACP discussions should be initiated in primary care. However, a practical model to implement ACP in general practice is lacking. Therefore, the objective of this study is to develop an intervention to support the initiation of ACP in general practice. METHODS: We conducted a Phase 0-I study according to the Medical Research Council (MRC) Framework. Phase 0 consisted of a systematic literature review about the barriers and facilitators for GPs to engage in ACP, focus groups with GPs were held about their experiences, attitudes and concerns regarding initiating ACP in general practice and a review of ACP interventions to identify potential components for the development of our intervention. In Phase 1, we developed a complex intervention to support the initiation of ACP in general practice in patients at risk of deteriorating or dying, based on the results of Phase 0. The complex intervention and its components were reviewed and refined by two expert panels. RESULTS: Phase 0 resulted in the identification of the factors inhibiting or enabling GPs' initiation of ACP and important components underpinning existing ACP interventions. Based on these findings, an intervention was developed in Phase 1 consisting of: (1) a training for GPs in initiating and conducting ACP discussions, (2) a register of patients eligible for ACP discussions, (3) an educational booklet on ACP for patients to prepare the ACP discussions that includes general information on ACP, a section on the role of GPs in the process of ACP and a prompt list, (4) a conversation guide to support GPs in the ACP discussions and (5) a structured documentation template to record the outcomes of discussions. CONCLUSION: Taking into account the barriers and facilitators for GPs to initiate ACP as well as the key factors underpinning successful ACP intervention in other health care settings, a complex intervention for general practice was developed, after gaining feedback from two expert panels. The feasibility and acceptability of the intervention will subsequently be tested in a Phase II study.			2016				10846
Mononostril versus Binostril Endoscopic Transsphenoidal Approach for Pituitary Adenomas: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Wen, G., Tang, C., Zhong, C., Li, X., Li, J., Li, L., Yang, Y. and Ma, C.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Over the past several decades, the endoscopic endonasal transsphenoidal approach (EETA) has gradually become a preferred option of pituitary adenomas surgery because of its minimal invasiveness and high efficiency. However, some EETA operations were performed through one nostril (mononostril), while other EETA operations were performed through both nostrils (binostril). Therefore, we conducted this study to compare the pros and cons of these two methods in an attempted to confirm which method is more effective. METHODS: We executed a systematic literature search of PubMed, the Cochrane Library, and the Web of Science and Medline (1992-2015). The language is limited to English and all studies should meet the inclusion criteria. Comparisons were made for postoperative outcomes, complications, and other relevant parameters between the mononostril and the binostril group. Statistical analyses of categorical variables were undertaken by the use of Stata 12.0 and SPASS 19.0. RESULTS: Thirty studies, involving 4805 patients, were included. The two groups had similar results in GTR rate (included GTR rate of macroadenomas), hormonal remission rate, improvement in visual function, postoperative CSF leak, permanent diabetes insipidus, meningitis, and sinusitis. The binostril group had less temporary diabetes insipidus (2.9% vs. 5.3%, p = 0.022), less anterior pituitary insufficiency (2.3% vs. 6.4%, p = 0.000) and few hospitalization days (3.2 days vs. 4.4 days, p<0.05) than the mononostril group. However, the mononostril group had less rate of epistaxis (0.4% vs. 1.5%, p = 0.008) than the binostril group. For invasive macroadenomas, the binostril group seem to demonstrate a tendency towards better outcomes though there was no subgroup analysis between the two groups. CONCLUSION: The binostril approach had less temporary diabetes insipidus, anterior pituitary insufficiency, and a shorter length of hospital stay, although they demonstrated a higher rate of epistaxis than the mononstril group. Additionally, the binostril group seemed to suggest a tendency towards better outcomes for invasive macroadenomas.			2016				8616
Effectiveness of interventions to indirectly support food and drink intake in people with dementia: Eating and Drinking Well IN dementiA (EDWINA) systematic review		Bunn, D. K., Abdelhamid, A., Copley, M., Cowap, V., Dickinson, A., Howe, A., Killett, A., Poland, F., Potter, J. F., Richardson, K., Smithard, D., Fox, C. and Hooper, L.				bmc geriatrics	bmc geriatrics	BACKGROUND: Risks and prevalence of malnutrition and dehydration are high in older people but even higher in older people with dementia. In the EDWINA (Eating and Drinking Well IN dementiA) systematic review we aimed to assess effectiveness of interventions aiming to improve, maintain or facilitate food/drink intake indirectly, through food service or dining environment modification, education, exercise or behavioural interventions in people with cognitive impairment or dementia (across all settings, levels of care and support, types and degrees of dementia). METHODS: We comprehensively searched Medline and twelve further databases, plus bibliographies, for intervention studies with ?3 cognitively impaired adult participants (any type/stage). The review was conducted with service user input in accordance with Cochrane Collaboration's guidelines. We duplicated assessment of inclusion, data extraction, and validity assessment, tabulating data. Meta-analysis (statistical pooling) was not appropriate so data were tabulated and synthesised narratively. RESULTS: We included 56 interventions (reported in 51 studies). Studies were small and there were no clearly effective, or clearly ineffective, interventions. Promising interventions included: eating meals with care-givers, family style meals, soothing mealtime music, constantly accessible snacks and longer mealtimes, education and support for formal and informal care-givers, spaced retrieval and Montessori activities, facilitated breakfast clubs, multisensory exercise and multicomponent interventions. CONCLUSIONS: We found no definitive evidence on effectiveness, or lack of effectiveness, of specific interventions but studies were small and short term. A variety of promising indirect interventions need to be tested in large, high-quality RCTs, and may be approaches that people with dementia and their formal or informal care-givers would wish to try. TRIAL REGISTRATION: The systematic review protocol was registered (CRD42014007611) and is published, with the full MEDLINE search strategy, on Prospero (http://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/display_record.asp?ID=CRD42014007611).			2016				7816
Chinese Herbal Medicine for Aspirin Resistance: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Chen, H., Shen, Z., Chen, J., Zhang, H. and Chen, X.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and safety of Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) for the treatment of aspirin resistance (AR). METHODS: A comprehensive research of seven electronic databases was performed for comparative studies evaluating CHM?for AR. Two authors independently extracted data and assessed the methodological quality of the included trials using the Cochrane risk of bias tool. Data wasere synthesized by using RevMan 5.3 software. (PROSPERO Registration #CRD42015020182). RESULTS: 18 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) involving 1,460 patients were included. 15 RCTs reported significant difference in the reduction of platelet aggregation rate (PAR) induced by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) (P<0.05), and 11 reported significant effect of CHM plus aspirin to reduce PAR induced by arachidonic acid (AA) (P<0.05) compared with aspirin 100mg/d treatment. The pooling data of 3 RCTs showed the thromboxane B2 (TXB2) in patients with CHM plus aspirin versus aspirin were significantly reduced (Random Effect model (RE), Standard Deviation (SD) = -95.93, 95% Confidential Interval (CI)[-118.25,-73.61], P<0.00001). Subgroup analysis showed that TXB2 (Fixed Effect model (FE), SD = -89.23, 95%CI[-121.96,-56.49], P<0.00001) had significant difference in Tongxinluo capsule plus aspirin versus aspirin. 2 RCTs reported the clinical effective rate, and the meta-analysis result showed a significant difference in intervention and control group (FE, Relative Risk (RR) = 1.67, 95%CI[1.15, 2.42], P = 0.007<0.05). In 4 trials, CHM plus aspirin had better effects of reducing the reoccurrence of cerebral infarction than aspirin (FE, RR = 0.24, 95%CI [0.11, 0.49], P<0.0001). And one trial showed that CHM plus aspirin could decrease the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NHISS) score (P<0.05) and increase the Barthel Index (BI) score (P<0.05). 4 trials stated that there were no adverse effects occurred in intervention group, and analysis showed significant difference of CHM or CHM plus aspirin in reducing the occurrence of adverse events (FE, RR = 0.22, 95%CI[0.13, 0.39], P<0.00001). 5 trials claimed that the CHM monotherapy and CHM adjunctive therapy for AR did not add the risk of bleeding (FE, RR = 0.50, 95%CI[0.20, 1.22], P = 0.13>0.05). CONCLUSIONS: CHM may be effective and safe as an alternative and collaborative therapy for AR. However, the current evidence and potential promising findings should be interpreted with caution due to poor and varying methodological quality of included studies and the heterogeneity of interventions. Thus, further exploration of this strategy with adequately powered RCTs is warranted.			2016				8588
Is Butter Back? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Butter Consumption and Risk of Cardiovascular Disease, Diabetes, and Total Mortality		Pimpin, L., Wu, J. H., Haskelberg, H., Del Gobbo, L. and Mozaffarian, D.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Dietary guidelines recommend avoiding foods high in saturated fat. Yet, emerging evidence suggests cardiometabolic benefits of dairy products and dairy fat. Evidence on the role of butter, with high saturated dairy fat content, for total mortality, cardiovascular disease, and type 2 diabetes remains unclear. We aimed to systematically review and meta-analyze the association of butter consumption with all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes in general populations. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We searched 9 databases from inception to May 2015 without restriction on setting, or language, using keywords related to butter consumption and cardiometabolic outcomes. Prospective cohorts or randomized clinical trials providing estimates of effects of butter intake on mortality, cardiovascular disease including coronary heart disease and stroke, or diabetes in adult populations were included. One investigator screened titles and abstracts; and two reviewed full-text articles independently in duplicate, and extracted study and participant characteristics, exposure and outcome definitions and assessment methods, analysis methods, and adjusted effects and associated uncertainty, all independently in duplicate. Study quality was evaluated by a modified Newcastle-Ottawa score. Random and fixed effects meta-analysis pooled findings, with heterogeneity assessed using the I2 statistic and publication bias by Egger's test and visual inspection of funnel plots. We identified 9 publications including 15 country-specific cohorts, together reporting on 636,151 unique participants with 6.5 million person-years of follow-up and including 28,271 total deaths, 9,783 cases of incident cardiovascular disease, and 23,954 cases of incident diabetes. No RCTs were identified. Butter consumption was weakly associated with all-cause mortality (N = 9 country-specific cohorts; per 14g(1 tablespoon)/day: RR = 1.01, 95%CI = 1.00, 1.03, P = 0.045); was not significantly associated with any cardiovascular disease (N = 4; RR = 1.00, 95%CI = 0.98, 1.02; P = 0.704), coronary heart disease (N = 3; RR = 0.99, 95%CI = 0.96, 1.03; P = 0.537), or stroke (N = 3; RR = 1.01, 95%CI = 0.98, 1.03; P = 0.737), and was inversely associated with incidence of diabetes (N = 11; RR = 0.96, 95%CI = 0.93, 0.99; P = 0.021). We did not identify evidence for heterogeneity nor publication bias. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review and meta-analysis suggests relatively small or neutral overall associations of butter with mortality, CVD, and diabetes. These findings do not support a need for major emphasis in dietary guidelines on either increasing or decreasing butter consumption, in comparison to other better established dietary priorities; while also highlighting the need for additional investigation of health and metabolic effects of butter and dairy fat.			2016				7676
Comparison of unilateral and bilateral percutaneous vertebroplasty for osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Sun, H. and Li, C.				journal of orthopaedic surgery and research	journal of orthopaedic surgery and research	BACKGROUND: The aim of this meta-analysis is to examine the safety and effectiveness of unilateral percutaneous vertebroplasty (PVP) for treatment of osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures (OVCFs) compared with that of bilateral treatment. METHODS: The multiple databases including PubMed, Springer, EMBASE, OVID, and China Journal Full-text Database were adopted to search for relevant studies in English or Chinese, and full-text articles involving comparison of unilateral and bilateral PVP surgery were reviewed. Review Manager 5.0 was adopted to estimate the effects of the results among selected articles. Forest plots, sensitivity analysis, and bias analysis for the articles included were also conducted. RESULTS: Finally, 1043 patients were included in the 14 studies, which eventually satisfied the eligibility criteria, and unilateral and bilateral surgeries were 550 and 493, respectively. The meta-analysis suggested that there was no significant difference of VAS score, ODI score, and cement leakage rate (MD?=?0.12, 95%CI [-0.03, 0.26], P?=?0.11; MD?=?-1.28, 95%CI [-3.59, 1.04], P?=?0.28; RR?=?0.89, 95%CI [0.61, 1.29], P?=?0.52). The surgery time of unilateral PVP is much less than that of bilateral PVP (MD?=?-16.67, 95%CI [-19.22, -14.12], P?<?0.00001). Patients with bilateral PVP surgery have been injected more cement than patients with unilateral PVP surgery (MD?=?-1.55, 95%CI [-1.94, -1.16], P?<?0.00001). CONCLUSIONS: Both punctures provide excellent pain relief and improvement of life quality. We still encourage the use of the unipedicular approach as the preferred surgical technique for treatment of OVCFs due to less operation time, limited X-ray exposure, and minimal cement introduction and extravasation.			2016				9806
A systematic review of physician retirement planning		Silver, M. P., Hamilton, A. D., Biswas, A. and Warrick, N. I.				human resources for health	human resources for health	BACKGROUND: Physician retirement planning and timing have important implications for patients, hospitals, and healthcare systems. Unplanned early or late physician retirement can have dire consequences in terms of both patient safety and human resource allocations. This systematic review examined existing evidence on the timing and process of retirement of physicians. Four questions were addressed: (1) When do physicians retire? (2) Why do some physicians retire early? (3) Why do some physicians delay their retirement? (4) What strategies facilitate physician retention and/or retirement planning? METHODS: English-language studies were searched in electronic databases MEDLINE, Web of Science, Scopus, CINAHL, AgeLine, Embase, HealthSTAR, ASSA, and PsycINFO, from inception up to and including March 2016. Included studies were peer-reviewed primary journal articles with quantitative and/or qualitative analyses of physicians' plans for, and opinions about, retirement. Three reviewers independently assessed each study for methodological quality using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale for quantitative studies and Critical Appraisal Tool for qualitative studies, and a fourth reviewer resolved inconsistencies. RESULTS: In all, 65 studies were included and analyzed, of which the majority were cross-sectional in design. Qualitative studies were found to be methodologically strong, with credible results deemed relevant to practice. The majority of quantitative studies had adequate sample representativeness, had justified and satisfactory sample size, used appropriate statistical tests, and collected primary data by self-reported survey methods. Physicians commonly reported retiring between 60 and 69 years of age. Excessive workload and burnout were frequently cited reasons for early retirement. Ongoing financial obligations delayed retirement, while strategies to mitigate career dissatisfaction, workplace frustration, and workload pressure supported continuing practice. CONCLUSIONS: Knowledge of when physicians plan to retire and how they can transition out of practice has been shown to aid succession planning. Healthcare organizations might consider promoting retirement mentorship programs, resource toolkits, education sessions, and guidance around financial planning for physicians throughout their careers, as well as creating post-retirement opportunities that maintain institutional ties through teaching, mentoring, and peer support.			2016				5397
Efficacy of low-level laser therapy in accelerating tooth movement, preventing relapse and managing acute pain during orthodontic treatment in humans: a systematic review		Sonesson, M., De Geer, E., Subraian, J. and Petrén, S.				bmc oral health	bmc oral health	BACKGROUND: Recently low-level laser therapy (LLLT) has been proposed to improve orthodontic treatment. The aims of this systematic review were to investigate the scientific evidence to support applications of LLLT: (a) to accelerate tooth movement, (b) to prevent orthodontic relapse and (c) to modulate acute pain, during treatment with fixed appliances in children and young adults. METHODS: To ensure a systematic literature approach, this systematic review was conducted to Goodman's four step model. Three databases were searched (Medline, Cochrane Controlled Clinical Trials Register and Scitation), using predetermined search terms. The quality of evidence was rated according to the GRADE system. RESULTS: The search identified 244 articles, 16 of which fulfilled the inclusion criteria: three on acceleration of tooth movement by LLLT and 13 on LLLT modulation of acute pain. No study on LLLT for prevention of relapse was identified. The selected studies reported promising results for LLLT; elevated acceleration of tooth movement and lower pain scores, than controls. With respect to method, there were wide variations in type of laser techniques. CONCLUSIONS: The quality of evidence supporting LLLT to accelerate orthodontic tooth movement is very low and low with respect to modulate acute pain. No studies met the inclusion criteria for evaluating LLLT to limit relapse. The results highlight the need for high quality research, with consistency in study design, to determine whether LLLT can enhance fixed appliance treatment in children and young adults.			2016				7404
Prognostic Value and Implication for Chemotherapy Treatment of ABCB1 in Epithelial Ovarian Cancer: A Meta-Analysis		Sun, S., Cai, J., Yang, Q., Zhu, Y., Zhao, S. and Wang, Z.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy resistance is reported to correlate with up-regulation of anti-tumor agent transporter ABCB1 (p-gp) in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), but the results remain controversial. To reconcile the results, a systematic review followed by meta-analysis was performed to assess the association between high ABCB1 status or ABCB1 gene variants and overall survival (OS), progression free survival (PFS), and total response rate (TR) in patients with EOC. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Electronic searches were performed using Pubmed, EMBASE, Web of Science and Chinese Wanfang databases from January 1990 to February 2016. Summary hazard ratio (HR), risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were combined using fixed or random-effects models as appropriate. RESULTS: Thirty-eight retrospective studies of 8607 cases qualified for meta-analysis were identified. Our results suggested that ABCB1 over-expression was significantly associated with unfavorable OS (HR = 1.54; 95% CI, 1.25-1.90), PFS (HR = 1.49; 95% CI, 1.22-1.82) and TR (RR = 0.63; 95% CI, 0.54-0.75). After adjustment for age, clinical stage, residual disease, histological type and tumor grade, high ABCB1 status remained to be a significant risk factor for adverse OS and PFS. Patients with recurrent ABCB1 positivity suffered from poorer OS than those with primary ABCB1 positivity. However, stratified by chemotherapy regimen, inverse correlation between high ABCB1 status and poor OS, PFS and TR were only found in patients underwent platinum-based chemotherapy but not in patients received standard platinum/paclitaxel-based chemotherapy. No evidence was found for any association between ABCB1 gene polymorphisms and OS, PFS or TR. CONCLUSION: High ABCB1 status is significantly associated with chemo-resistance and poor prognosis in patients with EOC. Large-scale, prospective studies are needed to assess the clinical value of ABCB1 expression in EOC more accurately.			2016				10943
The Effectiveness of Tai Chi for Chronic Musculoskeletal Pain Conditions: An Updated Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Hall, A., Copsey, B., Richmond, H., Thompson, J., Ferreira, M., Latimer, J. and Maher, C. G.				physical therapy	physical therapy	BACKGROUND: Tai chi is recommended for musculoskeletal conditions, however, the evidence for its clinical effectiveness is uncertain. PURPOSE: To determine whether tai chi is beneficial for clinical outcomes in people with musculoskeletal pain. DATA SOURCES: Seven databases EMBASE, PEDro, AMED, MEDLINE, CINAHL, Sport Discus, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized controlled trials of tai chi for people with a chronic musculoskeletal condition were included. DATA EXTRACTION: Two reviewers extracted data and rated risk of bias. Standardised mean differences and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated for individual trials and pooled effect sizes were calculated using a random effects model. DATA SYNTHESIS: 15 studies were identified including people with osteoarthritis (80%), back pain (13%) and headache (7%). Using the GRADE approach, we found moderate quality evidence that tai chi is more effective than no treatment or usual care at short term on pain (SMD -0.66 (-0.85, -0.48)) and disability (SMD -0.66 (-0.85, -0.46)). The evidence for other outcomes was of low or very low quality and there was little information regarding long-term effects. Thus, while the number of publications in this area has increased, the rigor has not, hindering our ability to provide reliable recommendations for clinical practice. LIMITATIONS: The evidence provided in this review is limited by trials with small sample sizes, low methodological quality and lack of long-term assessment. CONCLUSIONS: In order for tai chi to be recommended as an effective intervention, more high quality trials with large sample sizes assessing tai chi versus other evidence-based treatments at short and long-term are needed.			2017				4885
Comparing the adverse clinical outcomes associated with fraction flow reserve-guided versus angiography-guided percutaneous coronary intervention: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Bundhun, P. K., Yanamala, C. M. and Huang, F.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: Recently published randomized controlled trials have shown different results compared to the Fraction Flow Reserve Versus Angiography for Multi-vessel Evaluation (FAME) study. Therefore, this current analysis aimed to compare the adverse clinical outcomes associated with Fraction Flow Reserve (FFR)-guided versus standard angiography-guided Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) using a large number of randomized patients. METHODS: PubMed/Medline, EMBASE and the Cochrane library were searched for studies comparing FFR-guided with angiography-guided PCI. Mortality, Myocardial Infarction (MI), repeated revascularization and Major Adverse Cardiac Events (MACEs) at any follow up period following PCI were considered as the clinical endpoints in this analysis. Odds Ratios (OR) with 95% Confidence Intervals (CIs) were calculated and the analyses were carried out by the RevMan 5.3 software. Ethical approval was not necessary for this type of study. RESULTS: A total number of 2138 patients (1080 patients with FFR-guided versus 1058 patients with angiography-guided PCI) were included. Results of this analysis showed mortality not to be significantly different between FFR-guided and angiography-guided PCI with OR: 0.70, 95% CI: 0.39 - 1.25; P?=?0.22, I(2)?=?0%. Total repeated revascularization and Target Lesion Revascularization were also similarly manifested with OR: 0.82, 95% CI: 0.60 - 1.13; P?=?0.22, I(2)?=?0% and OR: 0.88, 95% CI: 0.43 - 1.80; P?=?0.73, I(2)?=?0% respectively. In addition, MACEs were also not significantly lower in the FFR-guided PCI group with OR: 0.82, 95% CI: 0.64 - 1.06; P?=?0.13, I(2)?=?0%. However, FFR-guided PCI was associated with a significantly lower rate of re-infarction with OR: 0.67, 95% CI: 0.47 - 0.96; P?=?0.03, I(2)?=?0%. CONCLUSION: FFR-guided PCI was not associated with significantly higher adverse clinical outcomes when compared to angiography-guided PCI. A significantly lower rate of re-infarction associated with FFR-guided PCI could show an important benefit. However, due to the limited number of patients analyzed, this hypothesis should further be confirmed in future trials.			2016				10127
The efficacy of preoperative administration of gabapentin/pregabalin in improving pain after total hip arthroplasty: a meta-analysis		Mao, Y., Wu, L. and Ding, W.				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	BACKGROUND: The purpose of this systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) was to evaluate the pain control by gabapentin or pregabalin administration versus placebo after total hip arthroplasty (THA). METHODS: In January 2016, a systematic computer-based search was conducted in the Medline, Embase, PubMed, CENTRAL (Cochrane Controlled Trials Register), Web of Science and Google databases. This systematic review and meta-analysis were performed according to the PRISMA statement criteria. The primary endpoint was the cumulative morphine consumption and visual analogue scale (VAS) scores at 24 and 48 h with rest or mobilisation. The complications of vomiting, nausea, dizziness and pruritus were also compiled to assess the safety of gabapentin and pregabalin. Stata 12.0 software was used for the meta-analysis. After testing for publication bias and heterogeneity across studies, the data were aggregated for random-effects modelling when necessary. RESULTS: Seven studies involving 769 patients met the inclusion criteria. The meta-analysis revealed that treatment with gabapentin or pregabalin can decrease the cumulative morphine consumption at 24 h (mean difference (MD)?=?-7.82; 95 % CI -0.95 to -0.52; P?<?0.001) and 48 h (MD?=?-6.90; 95 % CI -0.95 to -0.57; P?=?0.118). Gabapentin or pregabalin produced no better outcome than placebo in terms of VAS score with rest at 24 h (SMD?=?0.15; 95 % CI -0.17 to -0.48; P?=?0.360) and with rest at 48 h (SMD?=?0.22; 95 % CI -0.25 to 0.69; P?=?0.363). There was no statistically significant difference between the groups with respect to the VAS score at 24 h postoperatively (SMD?=?0.46; 95 % CI -0.19 to 1.11; P?=?0.164) and at 48 h postoperatively (SMD?=?1.15; 95 % CI -0.58 to 2.89; P?=?0.193). Gabapentin decreased the occurrence of nausea (relative risk (RR), 0.49; 95 % CI 0.27-0.92, P?=?0.025), but there was no significant difference in the incidence of vomiting, dizziness and pruritus. CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of the current meta-analysis, gabapentin or pregabalin can decrease the cumulative morphine consumption and decrease the occurrence of nausea; however, further trials are needed to assess the efficacy of pain control by gabapentin or pregabalin.			2016				10390
Use of peers to improve adherence to antiretroviral therapy: a global network meta-analysis		Kanters, S., Park, J. J., Chan, K., Ford, N., Forrest, J., Thorlund, K., Nachega, J. B. and Mills, E. J.				journal of the international aids society	journal of the international aids society	INTRODUCTION: It is unclear whether using peers can improve adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART). To construct the World Health Organization's global guidance on adherence interventions, we conducted a systematic review and network meta-analysis to determine the effectiveness of using peers for achieving adequate adherence and viral suppression. METHODS: We searched for randomized clinical trials of peer-based interventions to promote adherence to ART in HIV populations. We searched six electronic databases from inception to July 2015 and major conference abstracts within the last three years. We examined the outcomes of adherence and viral suppression among trials done worldwide and those specific to low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) using pairwise and network meta-analyses. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Twenty-two trials met the inclusion criteria. We found similar results between pairwise and network meta-analyses, and between the global and LMIC settings. Peer supporter+Telephone was superior in improving adherence than standard-of-care in both the global network (odds-ratio [OR]=4.79, 95% credible intervals [CrI]: 1.02, 23.57) and the LMIC settings (OR=4.83, 95% CrI: 1.88, 13.55). Peer support alone, however, did not lead to improvement in ART adherence in both settings. For viral suppression, we found no difference of effects among interventions due to limited trials. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis showed that peer support leads to modest improvement in adherence. These modest effects may be due to the fact that in many settings, particularly in LMICs, programmes already include peer supporters, adherence clubs and family disclosures for treatment support. Rather than introducing new interventions, a focus on improving the quality in the delivery of existing services may be a more practical and effective way to improve adherence to ART.			2016				10942
The effect of periodontal therapy on glycemic control and fasting plasma glucose level in type 2 diabetic patients: systematic review and meta-analysis		Teshome, A. and Yitayeh, A.				bmc oral health	bmc oral health	BACKGROUND: Diabetic mellitus and periodontal disease have bilateral associations. However, there is a dilemma on the effect of periodontal therapy on glycemic control and/or fasting plasma glucose level in type 2 diabetic patients with periodontitis. Therefore, this review aimed to assess the effectiveness of periodontal therapy versus no periodontal therapy on glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and fasting plasma glucose level in type 2 diabetic patients. METHODS: Article searching was done using four databases (MEDLINE, Cochrane library (CENTRAL), EMBASE and CINAHL) and a manual search (until December 2015). We included randomized controlled trials testing the effectiveness of periodontal therapy on glycated hemoglobin and fasting plasma glucose level in patients with type 2 Diabetes mellitus with periodontal disease. Studies published in English between 2005 and 2015 were included. Risk of bias was assessed regarding randomization, allocation sequence concealment, blinding, incomplete outcome data, selective outcome reporting, and other biases. RESULTS: After the article selection process, seven Randomized controlled trials involving 940 participants with a primary outcome of change in glycated hemoglobin and/or fasting plasma glucose and having a minimum of 3 months follow-up were included. There was a reduction of glycated hemoglobin 0.48(95 % CI: 0.18-0.78) after 3 months follow-up and 0.53 (95 % CI: 0.24-0.81) at the end of the intervention period. There was also a significant reduction of fasting plasma glucose level, 8.95 mg/dl (95 % CI: 4.30-13.61) in the intervention group after the end of the intervention. The pooled analysis showed that patients with adjunctive antibiotic therapy and mouth wash had effect size of 0.51(0.03, 1.00, p?=?0.04) and it was 0.53 (95 % CI: 0.19, 0.87; p?=?0.002) in patients without adjunctive therapy. The publication bias of the studies was 0.066 according to Egger's test. CONCLUSION: In this systematic review and meta-analysis, there is a significant reduction of Glycated hemoglobin and Fasting plasma glucose level on type 2 diabetic and periodontal patients with non-surgical periodontal therapy.			2016				8066
Adoptive Immunotherapy in Postoperative Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Zeng, Y., Ruan, W., He, J., Zhang, J., Liang, W., Chen, Y., He, Q. and He, J.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Adoptive immunotherapy (AI) has been applied in the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, but the value of postoperative AI has been inconclusive largely as a result of the small number of patients included in each study. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to address this issue for patients with postoperative NSCLC. METHODS: Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Library were searched for randomized controlled trials comparing adoptive immunotherapy with control therapies in postoperative NSCLC patients. The primary endpoint was overall survival. Hazard ratio (HR) was estimated and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using a fixed-effect model. RESULTS: Compared with control therapies, analyses of 4 randomized controlled trials (472 patients) showed a significant benefit of adoptive immunotherapy on survival (hazard ratio [HR] 0.61, 95% CI 0.45-0.84, p = 0.002), and a 39% reduction in the relative risk of death (no evidence of a difference between trials; p = 0.16, I² = 42%). In subgroup analyses by treatment cycles and treatment regimen, significant OS benefit was found in combination therapy of AI with chemotherapy, regardless of whether or not the treatment cycles were more than 10 cycles. CONCLUSION: Adoptive immunotherapy has the potential to improve overall survival in postoperative NSCLC. The findings suggest this is a valid treatment option for these patients. Further randomized clinical trials are urgently needed.			2016				6533
Robotic Assisted Radical Cystectomy with Extracorporeal Urinary Diversion Does Not Show a Benefit over Open Radical Cystectomy: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomised Controlled Trials		Tan, W. S., Khetrapal, P., Tan, W. P., Rodney, S., Chau, M. and Kelly, J. D.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: The number of robotic assisted radical cystectomy (RARC) procedures is increasing despite the lack of Level I evidence showing any advantages over open radical cystectomy (ORC). However, several systematic reviews with meta-analyses including non-randomised studies, suggest an overall benefit for RARC compared to ORC. We performed a systematic review with meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) to evaluate the perioperative morbidity and efficacy of RARC compared to ORC in patients with bladder cancer. METHODS: Literature searches of Medline/Pubmed, Embase, Web of Science and clinicaltrials.gov databases up to 10th March 2016 were performed. The inclusion criteria for eligible studies were RCTs which compared perioperative outcomes of ORC and RARC for bladder cancer. Primary objective was perioperative and histopathological outcomes of RARC versus ORC while the secondary objective was quality of life assessment (QoL), oncological outcomes and cost analysis. RESULTS: Four RCTs (from 5 articles) met the inclusion criteria, with a total of 239 patients all with extracorporeal urinary diversion. Patient demographics and clinical characteristics of RARC and ORC patients were evenly matched. There was no significant difference between groups in perioperative morbidity, length of stay, positive surgical margin, lymph node yield and positive lymph node status. RARC group had significantly lower estimated blood loss (p<0.001) and wound complications (p = 0.03) but required significantly longer operating time (p<0.001). QoL was not measured uniformly across trials and cost analysis was reported in one RCTs. A test for heterogeneity did highlight differences across operating time of trials suggesting that surgeon experience may influence outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: This study does not provide evidence to support a benefit for RARC compared to ORC. These results may not have inference for RARC with intracorporeal urinary diversion. Well-designed trials with appropriate endpoints conducted by equally experienced ORC and RARC surgeons will be needed to address this.			2016				7934
Mobile Phone Interventions for Adolescent Sexual and Reproductive Health: A Systematic Review		L'Engle, K. L., Mangone, E. R., Parcesepe, A. M., Agarwal, S. and Ippoliti, N. B.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: Interventions for adolescent sexual and reproductive health (ASRH) are increasingly using mobile phones but may not effectively report evidence. OBJECTIVE: To assess strategies, findings, and quality of evidence on using mobile phones to improve ASRH by using the mHealth Evidence Reporting and Assessment (mERA) checklist recently published by the World Health Organization mHealth Technical Evidence Review Group. DATA SOURCES: Systematic searches of 8 databases for peer-reviewed studies published January 2000 through August 2014. STUDY SELECTION: Eligible studies targeted adolescents ages 10 to 24 and provided results from mobile phone interventions designed to improve ASRH. DATA EXTRACTION: Studies were evaluated according to the mERA checklist, covering essential mHealth criteria and methodological reporting criteria. RESULTS: Thirty-five articles met inclusion criteria. Studies reported on 28 programs operating at multiple levels of the health care system in 7 countries. Most programs (82%) used text messages. An average of 41% of essential mHealth criteria were met (range 14%-79%). An average of 82% of methodological reporting criteria were met (range 52%-100%). Evidence suggests that inclusion of text messaging in health promotion campaigns, sexually transmitted infection screening and follow-up, and medication adherence may lead to improved ASRH. LIMITATIONS: Only 3 articles reported evidence from lower- or middle-income countries, so it is difficult to draw conclusions for these settings. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence on mobile phone interventions for ASRH published in peer-reviewed journals reflects a high degree of quality in methods and reporting. In contrast, current reporting on essential mHealth criteria is insufficient for understanding, replicating, and scaling up mHealth interventions.			2016				6786
Newborn Resuscitation Training in Resource-Limited Settings: A Systematic Literature Review		Reisman, J., Arlington, L., Jensen, L., Louis, H., Suarez-Rebling, D. and Nelson, B. D.				pediatrics	pediatrics	"CONTEXT: Birth asphyxia contributes substantially to neonatal mortality in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). The effects of training birth attendants in neonatal resuscitation (NR) on mortality are limited by falloff of skills and knowledge over time and transference of learned skills into clinical practice. OBJECTIVE: This review examined acquisition and retention of NR knowledge and skills by birth attendants in LMICs and the effectiveness of interventions to improve them. DATA SOURCES: Medline, Cochrane, Embase, CINAHL, Bireme, and African Index Medicus databases were searched. We reviewed Web pages and reports from non-peer-reviewed (or ""gray"") literature sources addressing NR training in LMICs. STUDY SELECTION: Articles on acquisition and retention of NR knowledge and skills, and interventions to improve them, were limited to LMICs. RESULTS: The initial search identified 767 articles, of which 45 met all inclusion criteria. Of these, 31 articles analyzed acquisition of knowledge and skills, and 19 analyzed retention. Most studies found high acquisition rates, although birth attendants struggled to learn bag-mask ventilation. Although significant falloff of knowledge and skills occurred after training, refresher training seemed to improve retention. Results of the gray literature analysis suggest that formal, structured practice sessions improve retention. LIMITATIONS: This review did not analyze training's direct impact on mortality. CONCLUSIONS: Knowledge and skills falloff is a significant barrier to the success of NR training programs and possibly to reducing newborn mortality in LMICs. Refresher training and structured practice show significant promise. Additional research is needed to implement and assess retention improvement strategies in classroom and clinical settings."			2016				8365
The effect of platelet-rich plasma on clinical outcomes of the surgical treatment of periodontal intrabony defects: A systematic review and meta-analysis		Hou, X., Yuan, J., Aisaiti, A., Liu, Y. and Zhao, J.				bmc oral health	bmc oral health	BACKGROUND: Studies investigating the use of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) in the treatment of intrabony defects have yielded mixed results. The aim of our study was to evaluate the efficacy of PRP by comparing clinical attachment level (CAL) and pocket depth (PD) for patients who received PRP as an adjunct to periodontal intrabony defect therapy with those for patients who did not. We also analyzed the influence of guided tissue regeneration (GTR) and different study designs (parallel and split-mouth studies) on the clinical outcomes of intrabony defects. METHODS: We performed a systematic review of articles published in any language up to June 7, 2015 by searching PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. We included only randomized controlled clinical trials (RCTs) that compared clinical outcomes between patients who received PRP as an adjunct to periodontal intrabony defect therapy and patients who did not. We combined data from randomized trials to assess clinical outcomes using a random-effects model. RESULTS: Of the 307 abstracts that were initially identified, 12 RCTs related to the treatment of periodontal intrabony defects were included in the final analysis. Clinically and significantly greater CAL gains and PD reductions were observed in subjects who received PRP as an adjunct to periodontal intrabony defect therapy than in subjects who did not (CAL: WMD 0.76 mm, 95 % CI?=?0.34 to 1.18 mm, P?=?0.0004; PD: WMD 0.53 mm, 95 % CI?=?0.21 to 0.85 mm, P?=?0.001). Subgroup meta-analyses of patients who underwent GTR demonstrated that this approach did not significantly affect treatment outcomes (CAL: WMD 0.08 mm, 95 % CI?=?-0.30 to 0.46 mm, P?=?0.67), as indicated by a comparison with patients who did not undergo GTR (CAL: WMD 1.22 mm, 95 % CI?=?0.88 to 1.57 mm, P?<?0.00001). Univariate meta-regression analyses revealed that the use of GTR explained the heterogeneity among the included studies (P?<?0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Within its limitations, this review suggests that PRP may be beneficial as an adjunct to graft materials for the treatment of periodontal intrabony defects, except in cases involving the use of GTR.			2016				8067
Carotid endarterectomy versus carotid angioplasty for stroke prevention: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Diao, Z., Jia, G., Wu, W. and Wang, C.				journal of cardiothoracic surgery	journal of cardiothoracic surgery	BACKGROUND: This meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the efficacy of carotid endarterectomy (CE) compared with carotid angioplasty (CA) in preventing stroke. Whether the use of CE is more efficient in preventing stroke than CA is a matter of debate. METHODS: Data were gathered from randomized controlled trials to evaluate the effect of CE compared with CA on the risk of stroke. Electronic searches in PubMed, Embase, and the Cochrane Library were performed to identify studies till November 2014. Only randomized controlled trials performed on patients who received either CE or CA for stroke prevention were included. RESULTS: Nine relevant trials (n?=?7163) that met the inclusion criteria were identified. In a pooled analysis, CE resulted in 35 % reduction in relative risk (RR) for short-term stroke [RR, 0.65; 95 % confidence interval (CI): 0.47-0.89; P?=?0.007)] and 22 % reduction in RR for long-term stroke (RR, 0.78; 95 % CI: 0.66-0.93; P?=?0.006) relative to CA. However, CE also increased the risk of 30-day myocardial infarction by 114 % compared with CA (RR, 2.14; 95 % CI: 1.30-3.53; P?=?0.003). Sensitivity analyses suggested that CE might influence the risk of 30-day major vascular events and 1-year major vascular events compared with CA. CONCLUSIONS: CE could reduce the risk of stroke (whether short term or long term), but resulted in a relative increase in the risk of myocardial infarction. This study might guide appropriate judgments about treatment approach. It also provided evidence to justify general guidelines for patients with carotid artery stenosis.			2016				9054
Efficacy and Safety of Oral Beclomethasone Dipropionate in Ulcerative Colitis: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Manguso, F., Bennato, R., Lombardi, G., Riccio, E., Costantino, G. and Fries, W.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND AND AIM: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of all the available evidence comparing efficacy and safety of oral prolonged released beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) to active oral controls in patients with mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis (UC). A subgroup-analysis compared the effectiveness of BDP and 5-ASA. METHODS: Literature research was performed in different databases, as well as manual search to identify abstracts from international meetings with data not included in extensive publications. Experts in the field and companies involved in BDP development and manufacture were contacted to identify unpublished studies used for registration purposes. Dichotomous data were pooled to obtain odds ratio meta-analysis. RESULTS: Five randomized controlled trials that compared oral BDP 5mg/day vs. all oral active controls in treating UC were identified as eligible. Efficacy and safety have been addressed after 4-week treatment period. One study evaluated efficacy and safety of BDP vs. prednisone and 4 of BDP vs. 5-ASA. Treatment with oral BDP 5 mg/day induces a significant better clinical response compared to oral 5-ASA (OR 1.86, 95% CI = 1.23-2.82, P = 0.003). The effect is detectable even when the comparison to prednisone is added (OR 1.41, 95% CI = 1.03-1.93, P = 0.03). Data on remission indicate that the potential clinical efficacy of BDP may be better than 5-ASA (OR 1.55, 95% CI = 1.00-2.40, P = 0.05). This difference is lost when the comparison with prednisone is added (OR 1.30, 95% CI = 0.76-2.23, P = 0.34). The safety analysis showed no differences between BDP and 5-ASA (OR 0.55, 95% CI = 0.24-1.27, P = 0.16). The lack of difference is maintained even when the study with prednisone is added (OR 0.67, 95% CI = 0.44-1.01, P = 0.06). However, the trend of difference is clear and indicates a more favourable safety profile of BDP compared to 5-ASA and PD. CONCLUSIONS: Oral prolonged release BDP showed a superior efficacy vs. oral 5-ASA in inducing clinical improvement of mild-to-moderate UC with a similar safety profile.			2016				7169
Effects of School-Based Educational Interventions for Enhancing Adolescents Abilities in Critical Appraisal of Health Claims: A Systematic Review		Nordheim, L. V., Gundersen, M. W., Espehaug, B., Guttersrud, Ø and Flottorp, S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Adolescents are frequent media users who access health claims from various sources. The plethora of conflicting, pseudo-scientific, and often misleading health claims in popular media makes critical appraisal of health claims an essential ability. Schools play an important role in educating youth to critically appraise health claims. The objective of this systematic review was to evaluate the effects of school-based educational interventions for enhancing adolescents' abilities in critically appraising health claims. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, AMED, Cinahl, Teachers Reference Centre, LISTA, ERIC, Sociological Abstracts, Social Services Abstracts, The Cochrane Library, Science Citation Index Expanded, Social Sciences Citation Index, and sources of grey literature. Studies that evaluated school-based educational interventions to improve adolescents' critical appraisal ability for health claims through advancing the students' knowledge about science were included. Eligible study designs were randomised and non-randomised controlled trials, and interrupted time series. Two authors independently selected studies, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias in included studies. Due to heterogeneity in interventions and inadequate reporting of results, we performed a descriptive synthesis of studies. We used GRADE (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation) to assess the certainty of the evidence. RESULTS: Eight studies were included: two compared different teaching modalities, while the others compared educational interventions to instruction as usual. Studies mostly reported positive short-term effects on critical appraisal-related knowledge and skills in favour of the educational interventions. However, the certainty of the evidence for all comparisons and outcomes was very low. CONCLUSION: Educational interventions in schools may have beneficial short-term effects on knowledge and skills relevant to the critical appraisal of health claims. The small number of studies, their heterogeneity, and the predominantly high risk of bias inhibit any firm conclusions about their effects. None of the studies evaluated any long-term effects of interventions. Future intervention studies should adhere to high methodological standards, target a wider variety of school-based settings, and include a process evaluation. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO no. CRD42015017936.			2016				7284
Efficacy of preoperative biliary drainage in malignant obstructive jaundice: a meta-analysis and systematic review		Moole, H., Bechtold, M. and Puli, S. R.				world journal of surgical oncology	world journal of surgical oncology	BACKGROUND: In patients requiring surgical resection for malignant biliary jaundice, it is unclear if preoperative biliary drainage (PBD) would improve mortality and morbidity by restoration of biliary flow prior to operation. This is a meta-analysis to pool the evidence and assess the utility of PBD in patients with malignant obstructive jaundice. The primary outcome is comparing mortality outcomes in patients with malignant obstructive jaundice undergoing direct surgery (DS) versus PBD. The secondary outcomes include major adverse events and length of hospital stay in both the groups. METHODS: Studies using PBD in patients with malignant obstructive jaundice were included in this study. For the data collection and extraction, articles were searched in MEDLINE, PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials & Database of Systematic Reviews, etc. Pooled proportions were calculated using both Mantel-Haenszel method (fixed effects model) and DerSimonian-Laird method (random effects model). RESULTS: Initial search identified 2230 reference articles, of which 204 were selected and reviewed. Twenty-six studies (N?=?3532) for PBD in malignant obstructive jaundice which met the inclusion criteria were included in this analysis. The odds ratio for mortality in PBD group versus DS group was 0.96 (95 % CI?=?0.71 to 1.29). Pooled number of major adverse effects was lower in the PBD group at 10.40 (95 % CI?=?9.96 to 10.83) compared to 15.56 (95 % CI?=?15.06 to 16.05) in the DS group. Subgroup analysis comparing internal PBD to DS group showed lower odds for major adverse events (odds ratio, 0.48 with 95 % CI?=?0.32 to 0.74). CONCLUSIONS: In patients with malignant biliary jaundice requiring surgery, PBD group had significantly less major adverse effects than DS group. Length of hospital stay and mortality rate were comparable in both the groups.			2016				8705
Efficacy and safety of insulin in type 2 diabetes: meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials		Erpeldinger, S., Rehman, M. B., Berkhout, C., Pigache, C., Zerbib, Y., Regnault, F., Guérin, E., Supper, I., Cornu, C., Kassaï, B., Gueyffier, F. and Boussageon, R.				bmc endocrine disorders	bmc endocrine disorders	BACKGROUND: It is essential to anticipate and limit the social, economic and sanitary cost of type 2 diabetes (T2D), which is in constant progression worldwide. When blood glucose targets are not achieved with diet and lifestyle intervention, insulin is recommended whether or not the patient is already taking hypoglycaemic drugs. However, the benefit/risk balance of insulin remains controversial. Our aim was to determine the efficacy and safety of insulin vs. hypoglycaemic drugs or diet/placebo on clinically relevant endpoints. METHODS: A systematic literature review (Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Library) including all randomised clinical trials (RCT) analysing insulin vs. hypoglycaemic drugs or diet/placebo, published between 1950 and 2013, was performed. We included all RCTs reporting effects on all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, death by cancer, cardiovascular morbidity, microvascular complications and hypoglycaemia in adults???18 years with T2D. Two authors independently assessed trial eligibility and extracted the data. Internal validity of studies was analyzed according to the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool. Risk ratios (RR) with 95 % confidence intervals (95 % CI) were calculated, using the fixed effect model in first approach. The I(2) statistic assessed heterogeneity. In case of statistical heterogeneity, subgroup and sensitivity analyses then a random effect model were performed. The alpha threshold was 0.05. Primary outcomes were all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality. Secondary outcomes were non-fatal cardiovascular events, hypoglycaemic events, death from cancer, and macro- or microvascular complications. RESULTS: Twenty RCTs were included out of the 1632 initially identified studies. 18 599 patients were analysed: Insulin had no effect vs. hypoglycaemic drugs on all-cause mortality RR?=?0.99 (95 % CI =0.92-1.06) and cardiovascular mortality RR?=?0.99 (95 % CI =0.90-1.09), nor vs. diet/placebo RR?=?0.92 (95 % CI?=?0.80-1.07) and RR?=?0.95 (95 % CI 0.77-1.18) respectively. No effect was found on secondary outcomes either. However, severe hypoglycaemia was more frequent with insulin compared to hypoglycaemic drugs RR?=?1.70 (95 % CI?=?1.51-1.91). CONCLUSIONS: There is no significant evidence of long term efficacy of insulin on any clinical outcome in T2D. However, there is a trend to clinically harmful adverse effects such as hypoglycaemia and weight gain. The only benefit could be limited to reducing short term hyperglycemia. This needs to be confirmed with further studies.			2016				11111
A systematic review of published interventions for primary and secondary prevention of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) in rural populations of Australia		Alston, L. V., Peterson, K. L., Jacobs, J. P., Allender, S. and Nichols, M.				bmc public health	bmc public health	BACKGROUND: Rural Australians are known to experience a higher burden of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) than their metropolitan counterparts and the reasons for this appear to be highly complex and not well understood. It is not clear what interventions and prevention efforts have occurred specifically in rural Australia in terms of IHD. A summary of this evidence could have implications for future action and research in improving the health of rural communities. The aim of this study was to review all published interventions conducted in rural Australia that were aimed at the primary and/or secondary prevention of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) in adults. METHODS: Systematic review of the peer-reviewed literature published between January 1990 and December 2015. Search terms were derived from four major topics: (1) rural; (2) ischaemic heart disease; (3) Australia and; (4) intervention/prevention. Terms were adapted for six databases and three independent researchers screened results. Studies were included if the published work described an intervention focussed on the prevention or reduction of IHD or risk factors, specifically in a rural population of Australia, with outcomes specific to participants including, but not limited to, changes in diet, exercise, cholesterol or blood pressure levels. RESULTS: Of 791 papers identified in the search, seven studies met the inclusion criteria, and one further study was retrieved from searching reference lists of screened abstracts. Typically, excluded studies focused on cardiovascular diseases without specific reference to IHD, or presented intervention results without stratification by rurality. Larger trials that included metropolitan residents without stratification were excluded due to differences in the specific needs, characteristics and health service access challenges of rural populations. Six interventions were primary prevention studies, one was secondary prevention only and one included both primary and secondary intervention strategies. Two interventions were focussed exclusively on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (Australian Indigenous) populations. CONCLUSIONS: Few interventions were identified that exclusively focussed on IHD prevention in rural communities, despite these populations being at increased risk of IHD in Australia, and this is consistent with comparable countries, internationally. Although limited, available evidence shows that primary and secondary interventions targeted at IHD and related risk factors can be effective in a rural setting.			2016				8064
Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse Imaging for the Differentiation of Benign and Malignant Lymph Nodes: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Zhang, P., Zhang, L., Zheng, S., Yu, C., Xie, M. and Lv, Q.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the overall performance of acoustic radiation force impulse imaging (ARFI) in differentiating between benign and malignant lymph nodes (LNs) by conducting a meta-analysis. METHODS: PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, the Cochrane Library and the China National Knowledge Infrastructure were comprehensively searched for potential studies through August 13th, 2016. Studies that investigated the diagnostic power of ARFI for the differential diagnosis of benign and malignant LNs by using virtual touch tissue quantification (VTQ) or virtual touch tissue imaging quantification (VTIQ) were collected. The included articles were published in English or Chinese. Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies-2 (QUADAS-2) was used to evaluate the methodological quality. The pooled sensitivity, specificity, and the area under the summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) curve (AUC) were calculated by means of a bivariate mixed-effects regression model. Meta-regression analysis was performed to identify the potential sources of between study heterogeneity. Fagan plot analysis was used to explore the clinical utilities. Publication bias was assessed using Deek's funnel plot. RESULTS: Nine studies involving 1084 LNs from 929 patients were identified to analyze in the meta-analysis. The summary sensitivity and specificity of ARFI in detecting malignant LNs were 0.87 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.83-0.91) and 0.88 (95% CI, 0.82-0.92), respectively. The AUC was 0.93 (95% CI, 0.90-0.95). The pooled DOR was 49.59 (95% CI, 26.11-94.15). Deek's funnel plot revealed no significant publication bias. CONCLUSION: ARFI is a promising tool for the differentiation of benign and malignant LNs with high sensitivity and specificity.			2016				9620
Effect of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists on proteinuria and progression of chronic kidney disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Currie, G., Taylor, A. H., Fujita, T., Ohtsu, H., Lindhardt, M., Rossing, P., Boesby, L., Edwards, N. C., Ferro, C. J., Townend, J. N., van den Meiracker, A. H., Saklayen, M. G., Oveisi, S., Jardine, A. G., Delles, C., Preiss, D. J. and Mark, P. B.				bmc nephrology	bmc nephrology	BACKGROUND: Hypertension and proteinuria are critically involved in the progression of chronic kidney disease. Despite treatment with renin angiotensin system inhibition, kidney function declines in many patients. Aldosterone excess is a risk factor for progression of kidney disease. Hyperkalaemia is a concern with the use of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists. We aimed to determine whether the renal protective benefits of mineralocorticoid antagonists outweigh the risk of hyperkalaemia associated with this treatment in patients with chronic kidney disease. METHODS: We conducted a meta-analysis investigating renoprotective effects and risk of hyperkalaemia in trials of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists in chronic kidney disease. Trials were identified from MEDLINE (1966-2014), EMBASE (1947-2014) and the Cochrane Clinical Trials Database. Unpublished summary data were obtained from investigators. We included randomised controlled trials, and the first period of randomised cross over trials lasting ?4 weeks in adults. RESULTS: Nineteen trials (21 study groups, 1 646 patients) were included. In random effects meta-analysis, addition of mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists to renin angiotensin system inhibition resulted in a reduction from baseline in systolic blood pressure (-5.7 [-9.0, -2.3] mmHg), diastolic blood pressure (-1.7 [-3.4, -0.1] mmHg) and glomerular filtration rate (-3.2 [-5.4, -1.0] mL/min/1.73 m(2)). Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism reduced weighted mean protein/albumin excretion by 38.7 % but with a threefold higher relative risk of withdrawing from the trial due to hyperkalaemia (3.21, [1.19, 8.71]). Death, cardiovascular events and hard renal end points were not reported in sufficient numbers to analyse. CONCLUSIONS: Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonism reduces blood pressure and urinary protein/albumin excretion with a quantifiable risk of hyperkalaemia above predefined study upper limit.			2016				9676
Comparison of Delta-Shape Anastomosis and Extracorporeal Billroth I Anastomosis after Laparoscopic Distal Gastrectomy for Gastric Cancer: A Systematic Review with Meta-Analysis of Short-Term Outcomes		Hu, G. Y., Tao, F., Ji, K. W. and Wang, W.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this systematic review and meta-analysis is to evaluate the safety and relative benefits of delta-shape anastomosis (DA) by comparing to conventional laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy with Billroth I gastroduodenostomy (LADG BI). METHODS: Studies and relevant literature regarding DA versus LADG BI were searched in the electronic databases. Operation time, postoperative complications, estimated blood loss, number of retrieved lymph nodes, time to first flatus, time to oral intake, length of postoperative hospitalization in DA and LADG BI were pooled and compared using meta-analysis. Weighted mean differences (WMDs) and odds ratios (ORs) were calculated with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) to evaluate the effect of DA. RESULTS: Eight studies of 1739 patients were included in the meta-analysis. Compared with LADG BI, DA had shorter postoperative hospitalization (WMD = -0.47, 95%CI: -0.69 to -0.25, P<0.01), less blood loss (WMD = - 25.90, 95%CI: -43.11 to -8.70, P<0.01), shorter time to oral intake (WMD = -0.25, 95%CI: -0.49 to -0.01, P = 0.04), and more retrieved lymph nodes (WMD = 1.36, 95%CI: 0.30 to 2.43, P = 0.01). Operation time (WMD = -0.07, 95%CI -15.58 to 15.43, P = 0.99), overall postoperative complication rate (OR = 1.05, 95%CI: 0.74 to 1.49, P = 0.63), surgical complication rate (OR = 1.02, 95%CI: 0.70 to 1.49, P = 0.90), nonsurgical complication rate (OR = 1.21, 95%CI: 0.54 to 2.72, P = 0.64), leakage rate (OR = 2.54, 95%CI: 0.92 to 7.01, P = 0.07), stricture rate (OR = 0.36, 95%CI: 0.09 to 1.44, P = 0.15), wound complication rate (OR = 0.71, 95%CI: 0.33 to 1.55, P = 0.39), time to first flatus (WMD = -0.10, 95%CI: -0.27 to 0.07, P = 0.26), and proximal surgical margin (WMD = -0.25, 95%CI: -1.14 to 0.65, P = 0.59) was not statistically different. CONCLUSION: Compared with LADG BI, DA is a safe and feasible procedure, with significantly reduced blood loss, time to oral intake, and postoperative hospitalization.			2016				8151
Effectiveness and Safety of Interventions for Treating Adults with Displaced Proximal Humeral Fracture: A Network Meta-Analysis and Systematic Review		Chen, L., Xing, F. and Xiang, Z.				plos one	plos one	PURPOSE: Network meta-analysis (NMA) is a comparatively new evidence-based technique in medical disciplines which compares the relative benefits associated with multiple interventions and obtains hierarchies of these interventions for various treatment options. We evaluated the effectiveness and safety of open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF), hemiarthroplasty (HA), reverse shoulder arthroplasty (RSA), intramedullary nailing (IN) and non-operative treatment (NOT) of displaced proximal humeral fractures in adults using Bayesian NMA of data from clinical trials. METHOD: PUBMED, EMBASE and CENTRAL in July 2016 were searched and clinical trials that evaluated interventions for treating adults with displaced proximal humeral fractures were identified. Methodological qualities of studies were assessed by the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale and risk of bias using the Cochrane Collaboration tool. RESULT: Thirty-four trials involving 2165 participants were included in the study. RSA had significantly the highest Constant score and lower total incidence of complications than ORIF, HA and IN. Moreover, RSA resulted in a lower incidence of additional surgery than ORIF and IN. The rank of treatments in terms high Constant score was: RSA, ORIF, IN, NOT and HA. The rank for reduction in total incidence of complications was: RSA, NOT, HA, IN and ORIF. For lowering the risk of additional surgery, the rank was: RSA, NOT, HA, IN and ORIF. CONCLUSION: RSA had the highest probability for improving functional outcome and reduction in the total incidence of complications and requiring additional surgery among the five interventions for treating adults with displaced proximal humeral fracture.			2016				9621
Two ghrelin receptor agonists for adults with malnutrition: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Su, J., Geng, J., Bao, J., Tang, Y., Liu, M., Yu, H., Han, Y., Huang, W. and Zhou, S.				nutrition journal	nutrition journal	BACKGROUND: Ghrelin receptor agonists have been established to be important in ameliorating the nutritional conditions in patients with malnutrition. However, some studies have reported inconsistent results. We aimed to coalesce the available evidence on the efficacy of ghrelin receptor agonists for the treatment of malnutrition. METHODS: We searched PubMed, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and EMBASE for relevant articles published through March 2016. Studies comparing the efficacy of ghrelin receptor agonists versus placebo in malnourished patients were eligible for inclusion. RESULTS: A total of 12 studies involving 1377 patients were included. Compared with placebo, ghrelin receptor agonists could increase the energy intake (standard mean difference [SMD] 2.67, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.48 to 3.85, P?<?0.001), lean body mass (weighted mean difference [WMD] 0.25 kg, 95% CI 0.07 to 0.42, P?=?0.006), fat mass (WMD 0.92 kg, 95% CI 0.05 to 1.8, P?=?0.038), and grip strength (WMD 0.31 kg, 95% CI 0.207 to 0.414, P?<?0.001) of patients with malnutrition. CONCLUSION: Our analysis indicated that ghrelin receptor agonists could improve the poor nutritional state of malnourished patients by increasing their energy intake, ameliorating their irregular body composition and improving their grip strength. However, these results might be less conclusive due to the limited sample sizes and one potential publication that has not been released.			2016				9201
Effects of Anthocyanin on Serum Lipids in Dyslipidemia Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Liu, C., Sun, J., Lu, Y. and Bo, Y.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Dyslipidemia was present in most of the patients with coronary heart disease. Epidemiological evidence suggests that anthocyanin has some effects on the serum lipid. However, these results are controversial. This study aimed at collecting current clinical evidence and evaluating the effects of anthocyanin supplementation on total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) in dialysis patients. METHODS: The search included PubMed, Web of Science, MEDLINE, Cochrane Library, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wanfang Database (up to July 2015) to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on the association between anthocyanin and serum lipids. RevMan (version 5.2) was used for Meta-analysis. Meta-regression analysis, sensitivity analysis and Egger's weighted regression tests were performed by using STATA software (version 12.0; StatCorp, College Station, TX, USA). RESULTS: Six studies (seven arms) involving 586 subjects were included in this meta-analysis. The results showed that anthocyanin supplementation has significant effects on TC [MD = -24.06, 95% CI(-45.58 to -2.64) mg/dL, I2 = 93%], TG [MD = -26.14, 95%CI(-40.20 to -3.08) mg/dL, I2 = 66%1], LDL-C [MD = -22.10, 95% CI (-34.36 to -9.85) mg/dL, I2 = 61%], and HDL-C(MD = 5.58, 95% CI (1.02 to 10.14) mg/dL;I2 = 90%). CONCLUSION: Anthocyanin supplementation significantly reduces serum TC, TG, and LDL-C levels in patients with dyslipidemia, and increases HDL-C. Further rigorously designed RCTs with larger sample sizes are needed to confirm the effectiveness of anthocyanin supplementation for dyslipidemia, especially hypo high density lipoprotein cholesterolemia.			2016				8703
Does cemented or cementless single-stage exchange arthroplasty of chronic periprosthetic hip infections provide similar infection rates to a two-stage? A systematic review		George, D. A., Logoluso, N., Castellini, G., Gianola, S., Scarponi, S., Haddad, F. S., Drago, L. and Romano, C. L.				bmc infectious diseases	bmc infectious diseases	BACKGROUND: The best surgical modality for treating chronic periprosthetic hip infections remains controversial, with a lack of randomised controlled studies. The aim of this systematic review is to compare the infection recurrence rate after a single-stage versus a two-stage exchange arthroplasty, and the rate of cemented versus cementless single-stage exchange arthroplasty for chronic periprosthetic hip infections. METHODS: We searched for eligible studies published up to December 2015. Full text or abstract in English were reviewed. We included studies reporting the infection recurrence rate as the outcome of interest following single- or two-stage exchange arthroplasty, or both, with a minimum follow-up of 12 months. Two reviewers independently abstracted data and appraised quality assessment. RESULTS: After study selection, 90 observational studies were included. The majority of studies were focused on a two-stage hip exchange arthroplasty (65 %), 18 % on a single-stage exchange, and only a 17 % were comparative studies. There was no statistically significant difference between a single-stage versus a two-stage exchange in terms of recurrence of infection in controlled studies (pooled odds ratio of 1.37 [95 % CI?=?0.68-2.74, I(2)?=?45.5 %]). Similarly, the recurrence infection rate in cementless versus cemented single-stage hip exchanges failed to demonstrate a significant difference, due to the substantial heterogeneity among the studies. CONCLUSION: Despite the methodological limitations and the heterogeneity between single cohorts studies, if we considered only the available controlled studies no superiority was demonstrated between a single- and two-stage exchange at a minimum of 12 months follow-up. The overalapping of confidence intervals related to single-stage cementless and cemented hip exchanges, showed no superiority of either technique.			2016				8114
Postoperative chemoradiotherapy versus chemotherapy for R0 resected gastric cancer with D2 lymph node dissection: an up-to-date meta-analysis		Zhou, M. L., Kang, M., Li, G. C., Guo, X. M. and Zhang, Z.				world journal of surgical oncology	world journal of surgical oncology	BACKGROUND: This meta-analysis aims to provide more evidence on the role of postoperative chemoradiotherapy (CRT) for gastric cancer (GC) patients in Asian countries where D2 lymphadenectomy is prevalent. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs), extracted data of survival and toxicities, and pooled data to evaluate the efficacy and toxicities of CRT compared with chemotherapy (CT) after D2 lymphadenectomy. RESULTS: A total of 960 patients from four RCTs were selected. The results showed that postoperative CRT significantly reduced loco-regional recurrence rate (LRRR: RR?=?0.50, 95 % CI?=?0.34-0.74, P?=?0.0005) and improved disease-free survival (DFS: HR?=?0.73, 95 % CI?=?0.60-0.89, P?=?0.002). However, CRT did not affect distant metastasis rate (DMR: RR?=?0.81, 95 % CI?=?0.60-1.08, P?=?0.15) and overall survival (OS: HR?=?0.91, 95 % CI?=?0.74-1.11, P?=?0.34). The main grade 3-4 toxicities manifested no significant differences between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, CRT after D2 lymphadenectomy may reduce LRRR and prolong DFS. The role of postoperative CRT should be further investigated in the population with high risk of loco-regional recurrence.			2016				10610
Workplace health promotion for older workers: a systematic literature review		Poscia, A., Moscato, U., La Milia, D. I., Milovanovic, S., Stojanovic, J., Borghini, A., Collamati, A., Ricciardi, W. and Magnavita, N.				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	BACKGROUND: Aging of the workforce is a growing problem. As workers age, their physical, physiological and psychosocial capabilities change. Keeping older workers healthy and productive is a key goal of European labor policy and health promotion is a key to achieve this result. Previous studies about workplace health promotion (WHP) programs are usually focused on the entire workforce or to a specific topic. Within the framework of the EU-CHAFEA ProHealth65+ project, this paper aims to systematically review the literature on WHP interventions specifically targeted to older workers (OWs). METHODS: This systematic review was conducted by making a comprehensive search of MEDLINE, ISI Web of Science, SCOPUS, The Cochrane Library, CINAHL and PsychINFO databases. Search terms included ageing (and synonyms), worker (and synonyms), intervention (and synonyms), and health (and synonyms). The search was limited to papers in English or Italian published between January, 1(st) 2000 and May, 31(st) 2015. Relevant references in the selected articles were also analyzed. RESULTS: Of the 299 articles initially identified as relating to the topic, 18 articles met the inclusion criteria. The type, methods and outcome of interventions in the WHP programs retrieved were heterogenous, as was the definition of the age at which a worker is considered to be 'older'. Most of the available studies had been conducted on small samples for a limited period of time. CONCLUSION: Our review shows that, although this issue is of great importance, studies addressing WHP actions for OWs are few and generally of poor quality. Current evidence fails to show that WHP programs improve the work ability, productivity or job retention of older workers. In addition, there is limited evidence that WHP programs are effective in improving lifestyles and concur to maintain the health and well-being of older workers. There is a need for future WHP programs to be well-designed so that the effectiveness and cost-benefit of workplace interventions can be properly investigated.			2016				5552
Metformin in prevention and treatment of antipsychotic induced weight gain: a systematic review and meta-analysis		de Silva, V. A., Suraweera, C., Ratnatunga, S. S., Dayabandara, M., Wanniarachchi, N. and Hanwella, R.				bmc psychiatry	bmc psychiatry	BACKGROUND: Most antipsychotics are associated with weight gain and other metabolic complications. Several randomized trials have shown metformin to be effective, but this still hasn't been included in clinical guidelines on managing antipsychotic induced weight gain. METHODS: All double blind placebo controlled trials assessing the efficacy of metformin in the treatment of antipsychotic induced weight gain were included. Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and MEDLINE were searched for the period January 2000-December 2015. Meta-analysis was carried out using the random effects model. RESULTS: Meta analysis of 12 published studies with a total of 743 patients found that in patients treated with antipsychotics, metformin treatment resulted in significantly better anthropometric and metabolic parameters than placebo. The mean change in weight was -3.27 kg (95 % CI -4.66 to -1.89) (Z?=?4.64, p?<?0.001). Metformin compared to placebo resulted in significant reduction in BMI [-1.13 kg/m(2) (95 % CI -1.61 to -0.66)] and insulin resistance index [-1.49 (95 % CI -2.40 to -0.59)] but not fasting blood sugar [-2.48 mg/dl (95 % CI -5.54 to 0.57]. CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis confirms that metformin is effective in treating antipsychotic induced weight gain in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.			2016				8948
3D-printing techniques in a medical setting: a systematic literature review		Tack, P., Victor, J., Gemmel, P. and Annemans, L.				biomedical engineering online	biomedical engineering online	BACKGROUND: Three-dimensional (3D) printing has numerous applications and has gained much interest in the medical world. The constantly improving quality of 3D-printing applications has contributed to their increased use on patients. This paper summarizes the literature on surgical 3D-printing applications used on patients, with a focus on reported clinical and economic outcomes. METHODS: Three major literature databases were screened for case series (more than three cases described in the same study) and trials of surgical applications of 3D printing in humans. RESULTS: 227 surgical papers were analyzed and summarized using an evidence table. The papers described the use of 3D printing for surgical guides, anatomical models, and custom implants. 3D printing is used in multiple surgical domains, such as orthopedics, maxillofacial surgery, cranial surgery, and spinal surgery. In general, the advantages of 3D-printed parts are said to include reduced surgical time, improved medical outcome, and decreased radiation exposure. The costs of printing and additional scans generally increase the overall cost of the procedure. CONCLUSION: 3D printing is well integrated in surgical practice and research. Applications vary from anatomical models mainly intended for surgical planning to surgical guides and implants. Our research suggests that there are several advantages to 3D-printed applications, but that further research is needed to determine whether the increased intervention costs can be balanced with the observable advantages of this new technology. There is a need for a formal cost-effectiveness analysis.			2016				8329
Should a prolonged duration of dual anti-platelet therapy be recommended to patients with diabetes mellitus following percutaneous coronary intervention? A systematic review and meta-analysis of 15 studies		Bundhun, P. K., Yanamala, C. M. and Huang, F.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: This study aimed to compare the adverse clinical outcomes associated with a short and a prolonged duration of Dual Anti-Platelet Therapy (DAPT) in patients with Diabetes Mellitus (DM) after undergoing Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI). METHODS: Medline/PubMed, EMBASE and the Cochrane library were searched for studies comparing the short and prolonged DAPT use in patients with DM. Adverse outcomes were considered as the clinical endpoints in this analysis. Odds Ratios (OR) with 95 % Confidence Intervals (CI) were used to express the pooled effect on discontinuous variables and the pooled analyses were performed with RevMan 5.3. RESULTS: Fifteen studies with a total number of 25,742 patients with DM were included in this current analysis which showed no significant differences in primary endpoints, net clinical outcomes, myocardial infarction and stroke with OR: 1.03, 95 % CI: 0.65-1.64; P?=?0.90, OR: 0.96, 95 % CI: 0.69-1.34; P?=?0.81, OR: 0.85, 95 % CI: 0.70-1.04; P?=?0.12 and OR: 0.94, 95 % CI: 0.65-1.36; P?=?0.75 respectively. Revascularization was also similar between these 2 groups of patients with DM. However, even if mortality favored prolonged DAPT use, with OR: 0.87, 95 % CI: 0.76-1.00; P?=?0.05, the result only approached significance. Also, stent thrombosis insignificantly favored a prolonged DAPT duration with OR: 0.56, 95 % CI: 0.27-1.17; P?=?0.12. Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) defined major and minor bleeding were not significantly different in these diabetic patients with OR: 0.91, 95 % CI: 0.60-1.37; P?=?0.65 and OR: 1.08, 95 % CI: 0.62-1.91; P?=?0.78 respectively. However, bleeding defined by the Bleeding Academic Research Consortium (BARC) classification was significantly higher with a prolonged DAPT use in these diabetic patients with OR: 1.92, 95 % CI: 1.58-2.34; P?<?0.00001. CONCLUSION: Following PCI, a prolonged DAPT use was associated with similar adverse clinical outcomes but with a significantly increased BARC defined bleeding compared to a short term DAPT use in these patients with DM. However, even if mortality and stent thrombosis favored a prolonged DAPT use, these outcomes only either reached statistical significance or were insignificant respectively, showing that a clear decision about recommending a prolonged duration of DAPT to patients with DM might not be possible at this moment, warranting further research in this particular subgroup.			2016				10047
Efficacy and safety of bevacizumab plus chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone in previously untreated advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Botrel, T. E., Clark, L. G., Paladini, L. and Clark, O. A.				bmc cancer	bmc cancer	BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the fourth most frequently diagnosed cancer and the second leading cause of neoplasm-related death in the United States. Several studies analyzed the efficacy of bevacizumab combined with different chemotherapy regimens consisting on drugs such as 5-FU, capecitabine, irinotecan and oxaliplatin. This systematic review aims to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of chemotherapy plus bevacizumab versus chemotherapy alone in patients with previously untreated advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). METHODS: Several databases were searched, including MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, and CENTRAL. The primary endpoints were overall survival and progression-free survival. Data extracted from the studies were combined by using hazard ratio (HR) or risk ratio (RR) with their corresponding 95 % confidence intervals (95 % CI). RESULTS: The final analysis included 9 trials comprising 3,914 patients. Patients who received the combined treatment (chemotherapy?+?bevacizumab) had higher response rates (RR?=?0.89; 95 % CI: 0.82 to 0.96; p?=?0.003) with heterogeneity, higher progression-free survival (HR?=?0.69; 95 % CI: 0.63 to 0.75; p?<?0.00001) and also higher overall survival rates (HR?=?0.87; 95 % CI: 0.80 to 0.95; p?=?0.002) with moderate heterogeneity. Regarding adverse events and severe toxicities (grade ??3), the group receiving the combined therapy had higher rates of hypertension (RR?=?3.56 95 % CI: 2.58 to 4.92; p?<?0.00001), proteinuria (RR?=?1.89; 95 % CI: 1.26 to 2.84; p?=?0.002), gastrointestinal perforation (RR?=?3.63; 95 % CI: 1.31 to 10.09; p?=?0.01), any thromboembolic events (RR?=?1.44; 95 % CI: 1.20 to 1.73; p?=?0.0001), and bleeding (RR?=?1.81; 95 % CI: 1.22 to 2.67; p?=?0.003). CONCLUSION: The combination of chemotherapy with bevacizumab increased the response rate, progression-free survival and overall survival of patients with mCRC without prior chemotherapy. The results of progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were comparatively higher in those subgroups of patients receiving bolus 5-FU or capecitabine-based chemotherapy plus bevacizumab, when compared to patients treated with infusional %-FU plus bevacizumab (no difference in PFS and OS). Regarding the type of cytotoxic scheme, regimens containing irinotecan and fluoropyrimidine monotherapy showed superior efficacy results when combined to bevacizumab.			2016				8161
Effect of inulin-type fructans on blood lipid profile and glucose level: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Liu, F., Prabhakar, M., Ju, J., Long, H. and Zhou, H. W.				european journal of clinical nutrition	european journal of clinical nutrition	BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: This systematic review and meta-analysis was performed to assess the effects of inulin-type fructans (ITF) on human blood lipids and glucose homeostasis associated with metabolic abnormalities, including dyslipidemia, overweight or obesity, and type-2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). SUBJECTS/METHODS: The MEDLINE, EMBASE and Cochrane Library databases were systematically searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) before January 2016. Human trials that investigated the effects of ITF supplementation on the lipid profile, fasting glucose and insulin were included using Review Manager 5.3. RESULTS: Twenty RCTs with 607 adult participants were included in this systematic review and meta-analysis. In the overall analysis, the supplementation of ITF reduced only the low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-c) (mean difference (MD): -0.15; 95% confidence interval (CI): -0.29, -0.02; P=0.03) without affecting the other endpoints. Within the T2DM subgroup analysis, ITF supplementation was positively associated with a decreased fasting insulin concentration (MD: -4.01; 95% CI: -5.92, -2.09; P<0.0001) and increased high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-c) (MD: 0.07; 95% CI: 0, 0.14; P=0.05). Moreover, a reduced fasting glucose tendency was identified only in the T2DM subgroup (MD: -0.42; 95% CI: -0.90, 0.06; P=0.09). There was a potential publication bias, and few trials were available for the T2DM subgroup analysis. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, the use of ITF may have benefits for LDL-c reduction across all study populations, whereas HDL-c improvement and glucose control were demonstrated only in the T2DM subgroup. Thus, additional, well-powered, long-term, randomized clinical trials are required for a definitive conclusion. Overall, ITF supplementation may provide a novel direction for improving the lipid profile and glucose metabolism.European Journal of Clinical Nutrition advance online publication, 14 September 2016; doi:10.1038/ejcn.2016.156.			2017				4540
Influence of the Infrapatellar Fat Pad Resection during Total Knee Arthroplasty: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Ye, C., Zhang, W., Wu, W., Xu, M., Nonso, N. S. and He, R.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: To enhance surgical exposure, resection of the infrapatellar fat pad (IPFP) is usually a routine procedure in total knee arthroplasty (TKA). However, there is conflicting evidence regarding whether IPFP resection during TKA impairs clinical outcome. We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis to clarify the influence of IPFP resection on primary TKA. METHODS: Embase, PubMed, and the Cochrane Library were systematically searched up to August 2016 to identify relevant studies. All clinical studies comparing IPFP resection (IPFP-R) and IPFP preservation (IPFP-P) in patients undergoing primary TKA were obtained. The meta-analysis was performed with Revman 5.3 and STATA 12.0 software. The weighted mean was estimated by using random effects (RE) models with 95% CIs, heterogeneity was assessed using the H statistic and the inconsistency index (I2). RESULTS: Seven studies involving 2,734 patients (3,258 knees) were included. IPFP resection trended to increase the incidence of postoperative anterior knee pain within 2 months postoperatively, compared with patients in whom the IPFP was preserved (odds ratio [OR]s 2.12[0.95, 4.73], p = 0.07). An increased incidence of anterior knee pain was observed in the IPFP resection group > 12 months postoperatively, but the difference was not significant (OR, 3.69 [0.81, 16.82], p = 0.07). In addition, a trend towards more shortening of the patellar tendon was also observed in the IPFP-R group. No significant results were found regarding postoperative knee function. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that preserving the IPFP may be superior to IPFP resection in patients undergoing primary TKA, due to the relatively lower rate of anterior knee pain after short-term follow-up.			2016				6907
Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised trials of perioperative outcomes comparing robot-assisted versus open radical cystectomy		Shen, Z. and Sun, Z.				bmc urology	bmc urology	BACKGROUND: With the introduction of robotic surgery, whether the robot-assisted radical cystectomy (RARC) could reduce the perioperative morbidity compared with Open radical cystectomy (ORC) was unknown. METHODS: Studies reported RARC were reviewed based on all randomized controlled trials (RCTs), which focused on the efficacy of RARC versus ORC. RESULTS: Of the 201 studies from preliminary screening, four RCTs were included. By pooling these studies, there were significant differences in comparison of operative time (p?=?0.007), estimated blood loss (EBL) (p?<?0.001) and time to diet (p?<?0.001) between the RARC group and ORC groups. There was no significant difference regarding perioperative complications (Clavien 2-5, Clavien 3-5), length of stay (LOS), positive surgical margins (PSM) and lymph node positive. CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis presented evidence for a benefit of EBL, time to diet, similar perioperative complications and oncological outcomes, but a longer operative time in RARC. It is noted that RARC was considered as a comparable surgical procedure to ORC.			2016				9106
Noninvasive versus invasive mechanical ventilation for immunocompromised patients with acute respiratory failure: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Wang, T., Zhang, L., Luo, K., He, J., Ma, Y., Li, Z., Zhao, N., Xu, Q., Li, Y. and Yu, X.				bmc pulmonary medicine	bmc pulmonary medicine	BACKGROUND: To determine the effects of noninvasive mechanical ventilation (NIV) compared with invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV) as the initial mechanical ventilation on clinical outcomes when used for treatment of acute respiratory failure (ARF) in immunocompromised patients. METHODS: We searched PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), the Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (CBM) and other databases. Subgroup analyses by disease severity and causes of immunodeficiency were also conducted. RESULTS: Thirteen observational studies with a total of 2552 patients were included. Compared to IMV, NIV was shown to significantly reduce in-hospital mortality (OR 0.43, 95 % CI 0.23 to 0.80, P value?=?0.007) and 30-day mortality (OR 0.34, 95 % CI 0.20 to 0.61, P value?<?0.0001) in overall analysis. Subgroup analysis showed NIV had great advantage over IMV for less severe, AIDS, BMT and hematological malignancies patients in reducing mortality and duration of ICU stay. CONCLUSIONS: The overall evidence we obtained shows NIV does more benefits or at least no harm to ARF patients with certain causes of immunodeficiency or who are less severe.			2016				9705
Root resorption during orthodontic treatment with self-ligating or conventional brackets: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Yi, J., Li, M., Li, Y., Li, X. and Zhao, Z.				bmc oral health	bmc oral health	BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to compare the external apical root resorption (EARR) in patients receiving fixed orthodontic treatment with self-ligating or conventional brackets. METHODS: Studies comparing the EARR between orthodontic patients using self-ligating or conventional brackets were identified through electronic search in databases including CENTRAL, PubMed, EMBASE, China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) and SIGLE, and manual search in relevant journals and reference lists of the included studies until Apr 2016. The extraction of data and risk of bias evaluation were conducted by two investigators independently. The original outcome underwent statistical pooling by using Review Manager 5. RESULTS: Seven studies were included in the systematic review, out of which, five studies were statistically pooled in meta-analysis. The value of EARR of maxillary central incisors in the self-ligating bracket group was significantly lower than that in the conventional bracket group (SMD -0.31; 95% CI: -0.60--0.01). No significant differences in other incisors were observed between self-ligating and conventional brackets. CONCLUSIONS: Current evidences suggest self-ligating brackets do not outperform conventional brackets in reducing the EARR in maxillary lateral incisors, mandible central incisors and mandible lateral incisors. However, self-ligating brackets appear to have an advantage in protecting maxillary central incisor from EARR, which still needs to be confirmed by more high-quality studies.			2016				6266
Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists for heart failure: systematic review and meta-analysis		Berbenetz, N. M. and Mrkobrada, M.				bmc cardiovascular disorders	bmc cardiovascular disorders	BACKGROUND: Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) have been associated with improved patient outcomes in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) but not preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of selective and nonselective MRAs in HFrEF and HFpEF. METHODS: We searched Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE and EMBASE. We included randomized controlled trials (RCT) of MRAs in adults with HFpEF or HFrEF if they reported data on major adverse cardiac events or drug safety. RESULTS: We identified 15 studies representing 16321 patients. MRAs were associated with a reduced risk of cardiovascular death (RR 0.81 [0.75-0.87], I(2) 0%), all-cause mortality (RR 0.83 [0.77-0.88], I(2) 0%), and cardiac hospitalizations (RR 0.80 [0.70-0.92], I(2) 58.4%). However, an a-priori specified subgroup analysis demonstrated that these benefits were limited to HFrEF (cardiovascular death RR 0.79 [0.73-0.86], I(2) 0%; all-cause mortality RR 0.81 [0.75-0.87], I(2) 0%; cardiac hospitalizations RR 0.76 [0.64-0.90], I(2) 68%), but not HFpEF (all-cause mortality RR 0.92 [0.79-1.08], I(2) 0%; cardiac hospitalizations RR 0.91 [0.67-1.24], I(2) 17%). MRAs increased the risk of hyperkalemia (RR 2.03 [1.78-2.31], I(2) 0%). Nonselective MRAs, but not selective MRAs increased the risk of gynecomastia (RR 7.37 [4.42-12.30], I(2) 0% vs. RR 0.74 [0.43-1.27], I(2) 0%). Evidence was of moderate quality for cardiovascular death, all-cause mortality and cardiovascular hospitalizations; and high-quality for hyperkalemia and gynecomastia. CONCLUSIONS: MRAs reduce the risk of adverse cardiac events in HFrEF but not HFpEF. MRA use in HFpEF increases the risk of harm from hyperkalemia and gynecomastia. Selective MRAs are equally effective as nonselective MRAs, without a risk of gynecomastia.			2016				5668
Less invasive surfactant administration versus intubation for surfactant delivery in preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Aldana-Aguirre, J. C., Pinto, M., Featherstone, R. M. and Kumar, M.				archives of disease in childhood. fetal and neonatal edition	archives of disease in childhood. fetal and neonatal edition	CONTEXT: In spontaneously breathing preterm infants with respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) receiving nasal continuous positive airway pressure, a method of less invasive surfactant administration (LISA) using a thin catheter has been described as an alternative to endotracheal intubation for surfactant delivery to reduce lung injury. OBJECTIVE: A systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing LISA with the standard method of surfactant delivery for clinical outcomes. METHODS: Medline, CENTRAL and Embase databases were searched (until 29 October 2015). Additional citations were identified from trial registries, conference proceedings and the bibliographies of selected articles. The included studies were RCTs enrolling preterm infants with RDS and compared LISA technique with intubation for surfactant delivery for any of the prespecified clinical outcomes. RESULTS: Six RCTs were identified, enrolling a total of 895 infants. The use of LISA technique reduced the composite outcome of death or bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) at 36?weeks (risk ratio (RR)=0.75 (95% CI 0.59 to 0.94), p=0.01), BPD36 among survivors (RR=0.72 (0.53 to 0.97), p=0.03), need for mechanical ventilation within 72?hours of birth (RR=0.71 (0.53 to 0.96), p=0.02) or need for mechanical ventilation anytime during the neonatal intensive care unit stay (RR=0.66 (0.47 to 0.93), p=0.02). There were no differences noted for the outcome of death and other neonatal morbidities. Procedure failure rate on the first attempt and the need for additional doses of surfactant were not different between the intervention groups. CONCLUSIONS: LISA technique for surfactant delivery results in a lesser need for mechanical ventilation in infants with RDS, reduction in the composite outcome of death or BPD at 36?weeks, and BPD36 among survivors.			2017				4738
Is Angiosome-Targeted Angioplasty Effective for Limb Salvage and Wound Healing in Diabetic Foot? : A Meta-Analysis		Chae, K. J. and Shin, J. Y.				plos one	plos one	PURPOSE: Given that the efficacy of employing angiosome-targeted angioplasty in the treatment of diabetic foot remains controversial, this study was conducted to examine its efficacy. METHODS: We performed a systematic literature review and meta-analysis using core databases, extracting the treatment modality of angiosome-targeted angioplasty as the predictor variable, and limb salvage, wound healing, and revision rate as the outcome variables. We used the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale to assess the study quality, along with the Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool. We evaluated publication bias using a funnel plot. RESULTS: The search strategy identified 518 publications. After screening these, we selected four articles for review. The meta-analysis revealed that overall limb salvage and wound healing rates were significantly higher (Odds ratio = 2.209, 3.290, p = 0.001, p<0.001) in patients who received angiosome-targeted angioplasty than in those who received nonangiosome-targeted angioplasty. The revision rate between the angiosome and nonangiosome groups was not significantly different (Odds ratio = 0.747, p = 0.314). CONCLUSION: Although a further randomized controlled trial is required for confirmation, angiosome-targeted angioplasty in diabetic foot was more effective than nonangiosome-targeted angioplasty with respect to wound healing and limb salvage.			2016				10406
Influence of combined physical and cognitive training on cognition: a systematic review		Lauenroth, A., Ioannidis, A. E. and Teichmann, B.				bmc geriatrics	bmc geriatrics	BACKGROUND: Numerous daily activities require simultaneous application of motor and cognitive skills (dual-tasking). The execution of such tasks is especially difficult for the elderly and for people with (neuro-) degenerative disorders. Training of physical and cognitive abilities helps prevent or slow down the age-related decline of cognition. The aim of this review is to summarise and assess the role of combined physical-and-cognitive-training characteristics in improving cognitive performance and to propose an effective training scheme within the frame of a suitable experimental design. METHODS: A systematic electronic literature search was conducted in selected databases. The following criteria were compulsory for inclusion in the study: 1. A (Randomized) Controlled Trial (RCT or CT) design; 2. Implementation of combined physical and cognitive training, either simultaneously (dual task) or subsequently - at least one hour per weekly over four weeks or more; 3. Cognitive outcomes as a study's endpoint. RESULTS: Twenty articles met the inclusion criteria. It appears that either simultaneous or subsequently combined physical and cognitive training is more successful compared to single physical or single cognitive exercise. Training characteristics like length, frequency, duration, intensity and level of task difficulty seem to determine cognitive performance. However, the articles show that cognitive improvement seems to remain somewhat confined to trained cognitive functions rather than generalising to other cognitive or daily-living skills. CONCLUSION: Due to methodological heterogeneity among studies, results need to be treated with caution. We critically discuss the role of training characteristics and propose a potentially effective training intervention within an appropriate experimental design.			2016				6670
Associations of dietary intakes of anthocyanins and berry fruits with risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies		Guo, X., Yang, B., Tan, J., Jiang, J. and Li, D.				european journal of clinical nutrition	european journal of clinical nutrition	To investigate the associations of dietary intakes of anthocyanins and berry fruits with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) risk and to evaluate the potential dose-response relationships based on prospective cohort studies. Cochrane library, Embase and PubMed databases were systematically searched up to Jan 2016 for relevant original studies. Summary relative risks (RRs) were calculated with a random effects model comparing the highest with lowest category. Dose-response was estimated using restricted cubic spline regression models. Three cohort studies reporting dietary anthocyanin intake with 200?894 participants and 12?611 T2DM incident cases, and five cohort studies reporting berry intake with 194?019 participants and 13?013 T2DM incident cases were investigated. Dietary anthocyanin consumption was associated with a 15% reduction of T2DM risk (summary RR=0.85; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.80-0.91; I(2)=14.5%). Consumption of berries was associated with an 18% reduction of T2DM risk (summary RR=0.82, 95% CI: 0.76-0.89; I(2)=48.6%). Significant curvilinear associations were found between dietary intake of anthocyanins (P for nonlinearity=0.006) and berries (P for nonlinearity=0.028) and T2DM risk, respectively. The risk of T2DM was decreased by 5%, with a 7.5?mg/day increment of dietary anthocyanin intake (RR=0.95; 95% CI: 0.93-0.98; I(2)=0.00%) or with a 17?g/day increment of berry intake (RR=0.95, 95% CI: 0.91-0.99; I(2)=0.00%), respectively. Higher dietary intakes of anthocyanins and berry fruits are associated with a lower T2DM risk.European Journal of Clinical Nutrition advance online publication, 17 August 2016; doi:10.1038/ejcn.2016.142.			2016				9950
Systematic review of non-surgical treatments for early dupuytren's disease		Ball, C., Izadi, D., Verjee, L. S., Chan, J. and Nanchahal, J.				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's disease is a common fibrotic disorder of the palm characterized by the development of progressive flexion deformities in the digits, leading to significant functional impairment. Surgical excision remains the most common treatment. However, this is only indicated in patients with established contractures rather than those with early disease. Early disease is generally characterized by the presence of palmar nodules with limited or no contracture of the fingers. The ideal treatment would be directed at patients with early progressive disease to prevent future deterioration. Various non-surgical treatment modalities have been described but there is currently no systematic assessment of the role and efficacy of these treatments in patients with early disease. METHODS: Using a PICOS analysis we reviewed publications of studies of patients with early disease who had received physical therapies, pharmacological treatment, or radiotherapy. Following PRISMA guidelines titles and abstract were screened using predefined criteria to identify those reporting outcomes specifically relating to the treatment of early disease. In the absence of a definition of early disease studies were included if early DD was described clinically, with digital contractures not exceeding 30°, Tubiana grades N to 1, and which reported identifiable data. Studies were excluded if data for early DD patients could not be extracted for analysis. RESULTS: In this systematic review, 26 studies were identified and analyzed to evaluate the effect of pharmacological therapy (n?=?11), physical therapy (n?=?5) and radiotherapy (n?=?10) on early Dupuytren's disease. The studies comprised 20 case series, 1 cohort study with the remainder reporting case studies. All publications were graded level of evidence 4 or 5 assessed using the Oxford Centre for Evidence Based Medicine grading. Narrative descriptions of the data are presented. CONCLUSIONS: Physical therapies were the most robustly assessed, using objective measures but the studies were under powered, providing insufficient evidence of efficacy. Intralesional steroid injection and radiotherapy appeared to lead to softening of nodules and to retard disease progression but lacked rigorous evaluation and studies were poorly designed. There is an urgent need for adequately powered double blinded randomized trials for this common disorder which affects 4 % of the population. TRIAL REGISTRATION: The protocol was registered ( CRD42015008986 16 November 2015) with the PROSPERO international prospective register of systematic reviews.			2016				5566
Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F versus conventional synthetic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs as monotherapy for rheumatoid arthritis: a systematic review and network meta-analysis		Wang, H. L., Jiang, Q., Feng, X. H., Zhang, H. D., Ge, L., Luo, C. G., Gong, X. and Li, B.				bmc complementary and alternative medicine	bmc complementary and alternative medicine	BACKGROUND: Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TwHF), a medicinal plant that has been widely used in Chinese traditional medicine, is proven effective for treating rheumatoid arthritis (RA), but its clinical efficacy and safety remain largely undefined in comparison with conventional synthetic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). METHODS: PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library, CNKI, VIP, CBM, and WanFang Databases. Endpoints were ACR 20, 50, and 70, and the number of withdrawals due to adverse events. Initially, traditional pairwise meta-analysis was performed by using a random-effects model. Then, we performed network meta-analysis to compare different therapies by using frequentist approach. RESULTS: A total of 22 trials (5255 participants) were identified. By direct comparison, TwHF was superior to sulphasalazine according to ACR 20, 50 and 70. TwHF was superior to placebo according to ACR 20 and 50. By indirect comparisons, TwHF was superior to methotrexate, leflunomide, sulphasalazine, tacrolimus, minocycline and placebo according to ACR 20. Ranking by the Surface under the Cumulative Ranking curve (SUCRA) values showed that TwHF had the greatest probability for being the best treatment option according to ACR 20 (92.0 %) and ACR 50 (81.3 %), and the highest probability to be in the second (57.8 %) ranking position after leflunomide (69.6 %) according to ACR 70. By both direct and indirect comparisons, TwHF caused no more significant withdrawals than the placebo. The SUCRA values showed that TwHF had the highest probability to rank sixth (26.7 %) after the placebo (45.6 %) in causing withdrawals. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that TwHF is effective and safe in the treatment of RA and has better clinical efficacy in terms of ACR 20 and 50 than existing conventional synthetic DMARDs. In the absence of head-to-head treatment comparison, the confidence in these estimates is low. Future comparative efficacy studies are warranted.			2016				10045
The prospective impact of food pricing on improving dietary consumption: A systematic review and meta-analysis		Afshin, A., Peñalvo, J. L., Del Gobbo, L., Silva, J., Michaelson, M., O'Flaherty, M., Capewell, S., Spiegelman, D., Danaei, G. and Mozaffarian, D.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: While food pricing is a promising strategy to improve diet, the prospective impact of food pricing on diet has not been systematically quantified. OBJECTIVE: To quantify the prospective effect of changes in food prices on dietary consumption. DESIGN: We systematically searched online databases for interventional or prospective observational studies of price change and diet; we also searched for studies evaluating adiposity as a secondary outcome. Studies were excluded if price data were collected before 1990. Data were extracted independently and in duplicate. Findings were pooled using DerSimonian-Laird's random effects model. Pre-specified sources of heterogeneity were analyzed using meta-regression; and potential for publication bias, by funnel plots, Begg's and Egger's tests. RESULTS: From 3,163 identified abstracts, 23 interventional studies and 7 prospective cohorts with 37 intervention arms met inclusion criteria. In pooled analyses, a 10% decrease in price (i.e., subsidy) increased consumption of healthful foods by 12% (95%CI = 10-15%; N = 22 studies/intervention arms) whereas a 10% increase price (i.e. tax) decreased consumption of unhealthful foods by 6% (95%CI = 4-8%; N = 15). By food group, subsidies increased intake of fruits and vegetables by 14% (95%CI = 11-17%; N = 9); and other healthful foods, by 16% (95%CI = 10-23%; N = 10); without significant effects on more healthful beverages (-3%; 95%CI = -16-11%; N = 3). Each 10% price increase reduced sugar-sweetened beverage intake by 7% (95%CI = 3-10%; N = 5); fast foods, by 3% (95%CI = 1-5%; N = 3); and other unhealthful foods, by 9% (95%CI = 6-12%; N = 3). Changes in price of fruits and vegetables reduced body mass index (-0.04 kg/m2 per 10% price decrease, 95%CI = -0.08-0 kg/m2; N = 4); price changes for sugar-sweetened beverages or fast foods did not significantly alter body mass index, based on 4 studies. Meta-regression identified direction of price change (tax vs. subsidy), number of intervention components, intervention duration, and study quality score as significant sources of heterogeneity (P-heterogeneity<0.05 each). Evidence for publication bias was not observed. CONCLUSIONS: These prospective results, largely from interventional studies, support efficacy of subsidies to increase consumption of healthful foods; and taxation to reduce intake of unhealthful beverages and foods. Use of subsidies and combined multicomponent interventions appear most effective.			2017				4846
No benefits of statins for sudden cardiac death prevention in patients with heart failure and reduced ejection fraction: A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Al-Gobari, M., Le, H. H., Fall, M., Gueyffier, F. and Burnand, B.				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Statins showed mixed results in heart failure (HF) patients. The benefits in major HF outcomes, including all-cause mortality and sudden cardiac death (SCD), have always been discordant across systematic reviews and meta-analyses. We intended to systematically identify and appraise the available evidence that evaluated the effectiveness of statins in clinical outcomes for HF patients. DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis. DATA SOURCES: We searched, until April 28, 2016: Medline, Embase, ISI Web of Science and EBM reviews (Cochrane DSR, ACP journal club, DARE, CCTR, CMR, HTA, and NHSEED), checked clinicaltrials.gov for ongoing trials and manually searched references of included studies. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTING STUDIES: We identified 24 randomized clinical trials that evaluated the efficacy of statins for HF patients. All randomized clinical trials were assessed for risk of bias and pooled together in a meta-analysis. Pre-specified outcomes were sudden cardiac death, all-cause mortality, and hospitalization for worsening heart failure. RESULTS: Statins did not reduce sudden cardiac death (SCD) events in HF patients [relative risk (RR) 0.92, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.70 to 1.21], all-cause mortality [RR 0.88, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.02] but significantly reduced hospitalization for worsening heart failure (HWHF) although modestly [RR 0.79, 95% CI 0.66 to 0.94]. Nevertheless, estimated predictive intervals were insignificant in SCD, all-cause mortality and HWHF [RR, 0.54 to 1.63, 0.64 to 1.19, and 0.54 to 1.15], respectively. An important finding was the possible presence of publication bias, small-study effects and heterogeneity of the trials conducted in HF patients. CONCLUSIONS: Statins do not reduce sudden cardiac death, all-cause mortality, but may slightly decrease hospitalization for worsening heart failure in HF patients. The evaluation of the risk of biases suggested moderate quality of the published results. Until new evidence is available, this study supports the 2013 ACCF/AHA guidelines to not systematically prescribe statins in ""only"" HF patients, which should help avoid unnecessary polypharmacy."			2017				5182
Early versus late initiation of renal replacement therapy in patients with acute kidney injury-a systematic review & meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Bhatt, G. C. and Das, R. R.				bmc nephrology	bmc nephrology	"BACKGROUND: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a common complication in the critically ill patients and associated with a substantial morbidity and mortality. Severe AKI may be associated with up to 60% hospital mortality. Over the years, renal replacement therapy (RRT) has emerged as the mainstay of the treatment for AKI. However, the exact timing of initiation of RRT for better patient outcome is still debatable with conflicting data from randomized controlled trials. Thus, a systematic review and meta-analysis was performed to assess the impact of ""early"" versus ""late"" initiation of RRT. METHODS: All the published literature through the major databases including Medline/Pubmed, Embase, and Google Scholar were searched from 1970 to October 2016. Reference lists from the articles were reviewed to identify additional pertinent articles. Retrieved papers concerning the effect of ""early/prophylactic"" RRT versus ""late/as and when required"" RRT were reviewed by the authors, and the data were extracted using a standardized data collection tool. Randomized trials (RCTs) comparing early initiation of RRT or prophylactic RRT with late or as and when required RRT were included. The primary outcome measures were all cause mortality and dialysis dependence on day 90. The secondary outcome measures were: length of ICU stay, length of hospital stay, recovery of renal function and adverse events. RESULTS: Of the 547 citation retrieved, full text of 44 articles was assessed for eligibility. Of these a total of 10 RCTs with 1,636 participants were included. All the trials were open label; six trials have unclear or high risk of bias for allocation concealment while four trials have low risk of bias for allocation concealment. There was a variable definition of early versus late in different studies. Thus, the definition of early or late was taken according to individual study definition. Compared to late RRT, there was no significant benefit of early RRT on day 30 mortality [6 studies; 1301 participants; RR, 0.92;95% CI: 0.76, 1.12); day 60 mortality [3 trials;1075 participants; RR, 0.94; 95% CI: 0.78, 1.14)]; day 90 mortality [3 trials; 555 participants; RR,0.94;95% CI: 0.67, 1.33)]; overall ICU or hospital mortality; dialysis dependence on day 90 [3 trials; (RR, 1.06; 95% CI:0.53, 2.12)]. There was no significant difference between length of ICU or hospital stay or recovery of renal functions. A subgroup analysis based on modality of RRT or mixed medical and surgical vs. surgical or based on severity of illness showed no difference in outcome measure. The trials with high or unclear risk of bias for allocation concealment showed benefit of early RRT (RR, 0.74; 95% CI: 0.59, 0.91) while the trials with low risk of bias for allocation concealment showed no difference in the mortality (RR, 1.02; 95% CI: 0.89, 1.17). Grade evidence generated for most of the outcomes was ""low quality"". CONCLUSION: This updated meta-analysis showed no added benefit of early initiation of RRT for patients with AKI. The grade evidence generated was of ""low quality"" and there was a high heterogeneity in the included trials. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42016043092 ."			2017				4756
Antenatal corticosteroids for neonates born before 25 Weeks-A systematic review and meta-analysis		Deshmukh, M. and Patole, S.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Efficacy of antenatal corticosteroids before 25 weeks of gestation is unclear. OBJECTIVE: To assess and compare neonatal outcomes following ANC exposure at 22, 23 and 24 weeks of gestation by conducting systematic review and meta- analysis. METHODS: A systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCT) and non-RCTs reporting on neonatal outcomes after exposure to ANC up to 246 weeks of gestation using the Cochrane systematic review methodology. Databases Pubmed, CINAHL, Embase, Cochrane Central library, and online abstracts of conference proceedings including the Pediatric Academic Society (PAS) were searched in Feb 2017. Primary outcome was in-hospital mortality defined as death before discharge during the first admission. Secondary outcomes included severe intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH> grade III and IV)/or periventricular leukomalacia (PVL), necrotising enterocolitis (NEC >stage II) and chronic lung disease (CLD). Meta-analysis was performed using a random-effects model. The level of evidence (LOE) was summarised using the GRADE guidelines. MAIN RESULTS: There were no RCTs; 8 high quality non-RCTs were included in the review. Meta-analysis showed reduction in mortality [N = 10109; OR = 0.47(0.39-0.56), p<0.00001; LOE: Moderate] and severe IVH and PVL [N = 5084; OR = 0.71(0.61-0.82), p<0.00001; LOE: Low] after exposure to ANC in neonates born <25 weeks. There was no significant difference in CLD [N = 4649; OR = 1.19(0.85-1.65) p = 0.31; LOE: Low] and NEC [N = 5403; OR = 0.95 (0.76-1.19) p = 0.65; LOE: Low]. Mortality was comparable in neonates born at 22, 23 or 24 weeks. CONCLUSION: Moderate to low quality evidence indicates that exposure to ANC is associated with reduction in mortality and IVH/or PVL in neonates born before 25 weeks.			2017				4246
The haemodynamic dilemma in emergency care: Is fluid responsiveness the answer? A systematic review		Elwan, M. H., Roshdy, A., Elsharkawy, E. M., Eltahan, S. M. and Coats, T. J.				scandinavian journal of trauma, resuscitation and emergency medicine	scandinavian journal of trauma, resuscitation and emergency medicine	BACKGROUND: Fluid therapy is a common and crucial treatment in the emergency department (ED). While fluid responsiveness seems to be a promising method to titrate fluid therapy, the evidence for its value in ED is unclear. We aim to synthesise the existing literature investigating fluid responsiveness in ED. METHODS: MEDLINE, Embase and the Cochrane library were searched for relevant peer-reviewed studies published from 1946 to present. RESULTS: A total of 249 publications were retrieved of which 22 studies underwent full-text review and eight relevant studies were identified. Only 3 studies addressed clinical outcomes - including 2 randomised controlled trials and one feasibility study. Five articles evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of fluid responsiveness techniques in ED. Due to marked heterogeneity, it was not possible to combine results in a meta-analysis. CONCLUSION: High quality, adequately powered outcome studies are still lacking, so the place of fluid responsiveness in ED remains undefined. Future studies should have standardisation of patient groups, the target response and the underpinning theoretic concept of fluid responsiveness. The value of a fluid responsiveness based fluid resuscitation protocol needs to be established in a clinical trial.			2017				4828
Effectiveness of the 23-Valent Pneumococcal Polysaccharide Vaccine (PPV23) against Pneumococcal Disease in the Elderly: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis		Falkenhorst, G., Remschmidt, C., Harder, T., Hummers-Pradier, E., Wichmann, O. and Bogdan, C.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Routine vaccination of elderly people against pneumococcal diseases is recommended in many countries. National guidelines differ, recommending either the 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23), the 13-valent conjugate vaccine (PCV13) or both. Considering the ongoing debate on the effectiveness of PPV23, we performed a systematic literature review and meta-analysis of the vaccine efficacy/effectiveness (VE) of PPV23 against invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) and pneumococcal pneumonia in adults aged ?60 years living in industrialized countries. METHODS: We searched for pertinent clinical trials and observational studies in databases MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. We assessed the risk of bias of individual studies using the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool for randomized controlled trials and the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale for observational studies. We rated the overall quality of the evidence by GRADE criteria. We performed meta-analyses of studies grouped by outcome and study design using random-effects models. We applied a sensitivity analysis excluding studies with high risk of bias. RESULTS: We identified 17 eligible studies. Pooled VE against IPD (by any serotype) was 73% (95%CI: 10-92%) in four clinical trials, 45% (95%CI: 15-65%) in three cohort studies, and 59% (95%CI: 35-74%) in three case-control studies. After excluding studies with high risk of bias, pooled VE against pneumococcal pneumonia (by any serotype) was 64% (95%CI: 35-80%) in two clinical trials and 48% (95%CI: 25-63%) in two cohort studies. Higher VE estimates in trials (follow-up ~2.5 years) than in observational studies (follow-up ~5 years) may indicate waning protection. Unlike previous meta-analyses, we excluded two trials with high risk of bias regarding the outcome pneumococcal pneumonia, because diagnosis was based on serologic methods with insufficient specificity. CONCLUSIONS: Our meta-analysis revealed significant VE of PPV23 against both IPD and pneumococcal pneumonia by any serotype in the elderly, comparable to the efficacy of PCV13 against vaccine-serotype disease in a recent clinical trial in elderly people. Due to its broader serotype coverage and the decrease of PCV13 serotypes among adults resulting from routine infant immunization with PCV13, PPV23 continues to play an important role for protecting adults against IPD and pneumococcal pneumonia.			2017				4642
Efficacy and Safety of Initial Combination Treatment of an Alpha Blocker with an Anticholinergic Medication in Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia Patients with Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms: Updated Meta-Analysis		Kim, H. J., Sun, H. Y., Choi, H., Park, J. Y., Bae, J. H., Doo, S. W., Yang, W. J., Song, Y. S., Ko, Y. M. and Kim, J. H.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: There is still controversy as to whether initial combination treatment is superior to serial addition of anticholinergics after maintenance or induction of alpha blockers in benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH)/lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine the benefits and safety of initial combination treatment of an alpha blocker with anticholinergic medication in BPH/LUTS through a systematic review and meta-analysis. METHODS: We conducted a meta-analysis of improvement in LUTS using International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), maximal urinary flow rate (Qmax), post-voided residual volume (PVR), and quality of life (QoL). RESULTS: In total, 16 studies were included in our analysis, with a total sample size of 3,548 subjects (2,195 experimental subjects and 1,353 controls). The mean change in total IPSS improvement from baseline in the combination group versus the alpha blocker monotherapy group was -0.03 (95% CI: -0.14-0.08). The pooled overall SMD change of storage IPSS improvement from baseline was -0.28 (95% CI: -0.40 - -0.17). The pooled overall SMD changes of QoL, Qmax, and PVR were -0.29 (95% CI: -0.50 - -0.07), 0.00 (95% CI: -0.08-0.08), and 0.56 (95% CI: 0.23-0.89), respectively. There was no significant difference in the number of acute urinary retention (AUR) events or PVR. CONCLUSIONS: Initial combination treatment of an alpha blocker with anticholinergic medication is efficacious for in BPH/ LUTS with improved measures such as storage symptoms and QoL without causing significant deterioration of voiding function.			2017				5259
Effects of CPAP and MADs on health-related quality of life in OSA: a systematic review and meta-analysis		Kuhn, E., Schwarz, E. I., Bratton, D. J., Rossi, V. A. and Kohler, M.				chest	chest	BACKGROUND: Untreated obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with impaired health-related quality of life (QoL) and excessive daytime sleepiness which have been shown to improve with treatment. The aim was to compare the effects of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) and mandibular advancement devices (MAD) on health-related QoL in OSA. METHODS: MEDLINE and Cochrane Library were searched up to November 2015. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the effect of CPAP, MADs or an inactive control on health-related QoL assessed by the 36-item short form (SF-36) in OSA. Extraction of study characteristics, quality and bias assessment were independently performed by three authors. A network meta-analysis using multivariate random-effects meta-regression was performed to assess treatment effects on the mental (MCS) and physical (PCS) component summary scores of the SF-36. RESULTS: Of 1491 identified studies, 23 RCTs were included in the meta-analysis (2342 patients). Compared with an inactive control, CPAP was associated with a 1.7 point (95%CI 0.1-3.2, p=0.036) improvement in the MCS and a 1.7 point (95%CI 0.5-2.9, p=0.005) improvement in the PCS. MAD was associated with a 2.4 points (95%CI 0.0-4.9, p=0.053) and a 1.5 point (95%CI -0.2-3.2, p=0.076) improvement in the MCS and PCS, respectively, compared to inactive controls. There were no statistically significant differences in treatment effects on the SF-36 scores between CPAP and MAD. CONCLUSIONS: CPAP is effective in improving health-related quality of life in OSA, and MADs may be just as effective but further RCTs comparing the two treatments are required.			2017				5012
The efficacy of pregabalin for the management of postoperative pain in primary total knee and hip arthroplasty: a meta-analysis		Li, F., Ma, J., Kuang, M., Jiang, X., Wang, Y., Lu, B., Zhao, X., Sun, L. and Ma, X.				journal of orthopaedic surgery and research	journal of orthopaedic surgery and research	OBJECTIVE: A systematic review of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of pregabalin for the management of postoperative pain in patients undergoing primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA) and primary total hip arthroplasty (THA). METHOD: The PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and Google Scholar databases were searched for related articles using search strategy. RevMan 5.3 software was selected to conduct the meta-analysis. RESULTS: Seven RCTs were included in our meta-analysis. There were significant differences in visual analogue scale (VAS) at 24 and 48 h with rest, knee flexion degree, mean morphine consumption, and postoperative side effects (nausea, vomiting, pruritus, and dizziness) when comparing the pregabalin group to the placebo group after TKA and THA. However, the differences in VAS at 72 h with rest and at 24 h on movement were not significant between the two groups. CONCLUSIONS: Pregabalin was found to improve pain control at 24 and 48 h with rest, reduce morphine consumption, improve the knee flexion degree, decrease the incident rate of nausea, vomiting, and pruritus, and increase the incident rate of dizziness after TKA and THA but could not improve the pain control at 72 h with rest. In summary, the use of pregabalin may be a valuable asset in pain management within the first 48 h after TKA and THA. However, future studies regarding doses and pregabalin medication are required.			2017				5226
Medication adherence in randomized controlled trials evaluating cardiovascular or mortality outcomes in dialysis patients: A systematic review		Murali, K. M., Mullan, J., Chen, J. H., Roodenrys, S. and Lonergan, M.				bmc nephrology	bmc nephrology	BACKGROUND: Medication non-adherence is common among renal dialysis patients. High degrees of non-adherence in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) can lead to failure to detect a true treatment effect. Cardio-protective pharmacological interventions have shown no consistent benefit in RCTs involving dialysis patients. Whether non-adherence contributes to this lack of efficacy is unknown. We aimed to investigate how medication adherence and drug discontinuation were assessed, reported and addressed in RCTs, evaluating cardiovascular or mortality outcomes in dialysis patients. METHODS: Electronic database searches were performed in MEDLINE, EMBASE & Cochrane CENTRAL for RCTs published between 2005-2015, evaluating self-administered medications, in adult dialysis patients, which reported clinical cardiovascular or mortality endpoints, as primary or secondary outcomes. Study characteristics, outcomes, methods of measuring and reporting adherence, and data on study drug discontinuation were analyzed. RESULTS: Of the 642 RCTs in dialysis patients, 22 trials (12 placebo controlled), which included 19,322 patients, were eligible. The trialed pharmacological interventions included anti-hypertensives, phosphate binders, lipid-lowering therapy, cardio-vascular medications, homocysteine lowering therapy, fish oil and calcimimetics. Medication adherence was reported in five trials with a mean of 81% (range: 65-92%) in the intervention arm and 84.5% (range: 82-87%) in the control arm. All the trials that reported adherence yielded negative study outcomes for the intervention. Study-drug discontinuation was reported in 21 trials (mean 33.2%; 95% CI, 22.0 to 44.5, in intervention and 28.8%; 95% CI, 16.8 to 40.8, in control). Trials with more than 20% study drug discontinuation, more often yielded negative study outcomes (p?=?0.018). Non-adherence was included as a contributor to drug discontinuation in some studies, but the causes of discontinuation were not reported consistently between studies, and non-adherence was listed under different categories, thereby potentiating the misclassification of adherence. CONCLUSIONS: Reporting of medication adherence and study-drug discontinuation in RCTs investigating cardiovascular or mortality endpoints in dialysis patients are inconsistent, making it difficult to compare studies and evaluate their impact on outcomes. Recommendations for consistent reporting of non-adherence and causes of drug discontinuation in RCTs will therefore help to assess their impact on clinical outcomes.			2017				5023
Effects of different phosphate lowering strategies in patients with CKD on laboratory outcomes: A systematic review and NMA		Sekercioglu, N., Angeliki Veroniki, A., Thabane, L., Busse, J. W., Akhtar-Danesh, N., Iorio, A., Cruz Lopes, L. and Guyatt, G. H.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder (CKD-MBD), a complication of chronic kidney disease, has been linked to reduced quality and length of life. High serum phosphate levels that result from CKD-MBD require phosphate-lowering agents, also known as phosphate binders. The objective of this systematic review is to compare the effects of available phosphate binders on laboratory outcomes in patients with CKD-MBD. METHODS: Data sources included MEDLINE and EMBASE from January 1996 to April 2016, and the Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials up to April 2016. Teams of two reviewers, independently and in duplicate, screened titles and abstracts and potentially eligible full text reports to determine eligibility, and subsequently abstracted data and assessed risk of bias in eligible randomized controlled trials (RCTs). Eligible trials enrolled patients with CKD-MBD and randomized them to receive calcium-based phosphate binders (delivered as calcium acetate, calcium citrate or calcium carbonate), non-calcium-based phosphate binders (NCBPB) (sevelamer hydrochloride, sevelamer carbonate, lanthanum carbonate, sucroferric oxyhydroxide and ferric citrate), phosphorus restricted diet (diet), placebo or no treatment and reported effects on serum levels of phosphate, calcium and parathyroid hormone. We performed Bayesian network meta-analyses (NMA) to calculate the effect estimates (mean differences) and 95% credible intervals for serum levels of phosphate, calcium and parathyroid hormone. We calculated direct, indirect and network meta-analysis estimates using random-effects models. We applied the GRADE (Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) approach to rate the quality of evidence for each pairwise comparison. RESULTS: Our search yielded 1108 citations; 71 RCTs were retrieved for full review and 16 proved eligible. Including an additional 13 studies from a previous review, 29 studies that enrolled 8335 participants proved eligible; 26 trials provided data for quantitative synthesis. Sevelamer, lanthanum, calcium, iron, diet and combinations of active treatments (calcium or sevelamer or lanthanum and combination of calcium and sevelamer) resulted in significantly lower serum phosphate as compared to placebo (moderate to very low quality of evidence). We found no statistically significant differences between active treatment categories in lowering serum phosphate. Sevelamer, lanthanum and diet resulted in lower serum calcium compared to calcium (moderate quality evidence for lanthanum and diet; low quality evidence for Sevelamer). Iron, sevelamer and calcium yielded lower parathyroid hormone levels as compared to lanthanum. Meta-regression analyses did not yield a statistically significant association between treatment effect and trial duration. DISCUSSION/CONCLUSIONS: We found few differences between treatments in impact on phosphate and differences in parathyroid hormone. Relative to calcium, sevelamer, lanthanum and diet showed significant reduction in serum calcium from baseline. Treatment recommendations should be based on impact on patient-important outcomes rather than on surrogate outcomes. Systematic review registration: PROSPERO CRD-42016032945.			2017				4569
The temporal effect of platelet-rich plasma on pain and physical function in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		Shen, L., Yuan, T., Chen, S., Xie, X. and Zhang, C.				journal of orthopaedic surgery and research	journal of orthopaedic surgery and research	BACKGROUND: Quite a few randomized controlled trials (RCTs) investigating the efficacy of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) for treatment of knee osteoarthritis (OA) have been recently published. Therefore, an updated systematic review was performed to evaluate the temporal effect of PRP on knee pain and physical function. METHODS: Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane library, and Scopus were searched for human RCTs comparing the efficacy and/or safety of PRP infiltration with other intra-articular injections. A descriptive summary and quality assessment were performed for all the studies finally included for analysis. For studies reporting outcomes concerning Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC) or adverse events, a random-effects model was used for data synthesis. RESULTS: Fourteen RCTs comprising 1423 participants were included. The control included saline placebo, HA, ozone, and corticosteroids. The follow-up ranged from 12 weeks to 12 months. Risk of bias assessment showed that 4 studies were considered as moderate risk of bias and 10 as high risk of bias. Compared with control, PRP injections significantly reduced WOMAC pain subscores at 3, 6, and 12 months follow-up (p?=?0.02, 0.004, <0.001, respectively); PRP significantly improved WOMAC physical function subscores at 3, 6, and 12 months (p?=?0.002, 0.01, <0.001, respectively); PRP also significantly improved total WOMAC scores at 3, 6 and 12 months (all p?<?0.001); nonetheless, PRP did not significantly increased the risk of post-injection adverse events (RR, 1.40 [95% CI, 0.80 to 2.45], I (2) ?=?59%, p?=?0.24). CONCLUSIONS: Intra-articular PRP injections probably are more efficacious in the treatment of knee OA in terms of pain relief and self-reported function improvement at 3, 6 and 12 months follow-up, compared with other injections, including saline placebo, HA, ozone, and corticosteroids. REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42016045410 . Registered 8 August 2016.			2017				4708
Comparative efficacy and safety of second-line treatments for advanced non-small cell lung cancer with wild-type or unknown status for epidermal growth factor receptor: a systematic review and network meta-analysis		Créquit, P., Chaimani, A., Yavchitz, A., Attiche, N., Cadranel, J., Trinquart, L. and Ravaud, P.				bmc medicine	bmc medicine	BACKGROUND: Docetaxel, pemetrexed, erlotinib, and gefitinib are recommended as second-line treatment for advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with wild-type or unknown status for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). However, the number of published randomized clinical trials (RCTs) on this topic is increasing. Our objective was to assess the comparative effectiveness and tolerability of all second-line treatments for advanced NSCLC with wild-type or unknown status for EGFR by a systematic review and network meta-analysis. METHODS: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CENTRAL, ClinicalTrials.gov, and the US Food and Drug Administration website, as well as other sources, were searched for available reports up to June 6, 2017. Two reviewers independently selected published and unpublished reports of RCTs comparing any second-line treatments, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of all included trials. We performed a Bayesian network meta-analysis. The primary outcomes were overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). Secondary outcomes included objective response (ObR), the number of serious adverse events, and quality of life. RESULTS: We included 102 RCTs involving 36,058 patients (62% male, median age 61 years, 81% with stage IV cancer, 80% smokers, and 92% with performance status 0-1). We revealed a differential reporting of outcomes between efficacy and safety outcomes. Half of the trials reported safety outcomes and less than 20% quality of life. For OS, nivolumab was more effective than docetaxel (hazard ratio (HR) 0.69, 95% credible interval (CrI) 0.56-0.83), pemetrexed (0.67, 0.52-0.83), erlotinib (0.68, 0.53-0.86), and gefitinib (0.66, 0.53-0.83). Pembrolizumab, atezolizumab, and pemetrexed plus erlotinib were also significantly more effective than docetaxel, pemetrexed, erlotinib, and gefitinib. For PFS, erlotinib plus cabozantinib was more effective than docetaxel (HR 0.39, 95% CrI 0.18-0.84), pemetrexed (0.38, 0.18-0.82), erlotinib (0.37, 0.18-0.78), and gefitinib (0.38, 0.18-0.82). Cabozantinib and pemetrexed plus erlotinib were also significantly more effective than the four recommended treatments. For ObR, no treatment was significantly more effective. The effectiveness of the four recommended treatments was similar and they were ranked among the 25 less-effective treatments. For safety, evidence is insufficient to draw certain conclusions. CONCLUSIONS: Nivolumab, pembrolizumab, atezolizumab, and pemetrexed plus erlotinib may be the most effective second-line treatments for NSCLC in terms of OS. The four recommended treatments seem to have relatively poor performance. However, the impact on life expectancy of immunotherapy versus other treatments should be further explored by future analyses, and more trials comparing the novel treatments are needed to reduce uncertainty in these results. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Registration number: PROSPERO ( CRD42015017592 ).			2017				4762
A systematic review of adverse drug events associated with administration of common asthma medications in children		Leung, J. S., Johnson, D. W., Sperou, A. J., Crotts, J., Saude, E., Hartling, L. and Stang, A.				plos one	plos one	OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the literature and determine frequencies of adverse drug events (ADE) associated with pediatric asthma medications. METHODS: Following PRISMA guidelines, we systematically searched six bibliographic databases between January 1991 and January 2017. Study eligibility, data extraction and quality assessment were independently completed and verified by two reviewers. We included randomized control trials (RCT), case-control, cohort, or quasi-experimental studies where the primary objective was identifying ADE in children 1 month- 18 years old exposed to commercial asthma medications. The primary outcome was ADE frequency. FINDINGS: Our search identified 14,540 citations. 46 studies were included: 24 RCT, 15 cohort, 4 RCT pooled analyses, 1 case-control, 1 open-label trial and 1 quasi-experimental study. Studies examined the following drug classes: inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) (n = 24), short-acting beta-agonists (n = 10), long-acting beta-agonists (LABA) (n = 3), ICS + LABA (n = 3), Leukotriene Receptor Antagonists (n = 3) and others (n = 3). 29 studies occurred in North America, and 29 were industry funded. We report a detailed index of 406 ADE descriptions and frequencies organized by drug class. The majority of data focuses on ICS, with 174 ADE affecting 13 organ systems including adrenal and growth suppression. We observed serious ADE, although they were rare, with frequency ranging between 0.9-6% per drug. There were no confirmed deaths, except for 13 potential deaths in a LABA study including combined adult and pediatric participants. We identified substantial methodological concerns, particularly with identifying ADE and determining severity. No studies utilized available standardized causality, severity or preventability assessments. CONCLUSION: The majority of studies focus on ICS, with adrenal and growth suppression described. Serious ADE are relatively uncommon, with no confirmed pediatric deaths. We identify substantial methodological concerns, highlighting need for standardization with future research examining pediatric asthma medication safety.			2017				4833
Effects of calcium channel blockers comparing to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers in patients with hypertension and chronic kidney disease stage 3 to 5 and dialysis: A systematic review and meta-analysis		Lin, Y. C., Lin, J. W., Wu, M. S., Chen, K. C., Peng, C. C. and Kang, Y. N.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND: Calcium channel blocker (CCB) or two renin angiotensin aldosterone system blockades (RAAS), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) and angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), are major potent and prevalently used as initial antihypertensive agents for mild to moderate hypertension, but no uniform agreement as to which antihypertensive drugs should be given for initial therapy, especially among chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients. DESIGN: A systematic review and meta-analysis comparing CCBs and the two RAAS blockades for hypertensive patients with CKD stage 3 to 5D. The inclusion criteria for this systematic review was RCT that compared the effects of CCBs and the two RAAS blockades in patients with hypertension and CKD. The exclusion criteria were (1) renal transplantation, (2) CKD stage 1 or 2, (3) combined therapy (data cannot be extracted separately). Outcomes were blood pressure change, mortality, heart failure, stroke or cerebrovascular events, and renal outcomes. RESULTS: 21 randomized controlled trials randomized 9,492 patients with hypertensive and CKD into CCBs and the two RAAS blockades treatments. The evidence showed no significant differences in blood presser change, mortality, heart failure, stroke or cerebrovascular events, and renal outcomes between CCBs group and the two RAAS blockades group. The publication bias of pooled mean blood presser change that was detected by Egger's test was non-significant. CONCLUSIONS: CCBs has similar effects on long term blood pressure, mortality, heart failure, stroke or cerebrovascular events, and renal function to RAAS blockades in patients CKD stage 3 to 5D and hypertension.			2017				4726
Effectiveness of Apneic Oxygenation During Intubation: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis		Oliveira, J. E. Silva L., Cabrera, D., Barrionuevo, P., Johnson, R. L., Erwin, P. J., Murad, M. H. and Bellolio, M. F.				annals of emergency medicine	annals of emergency medicine	STUDY OBJECTIVE: We conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate the effectiveness of apneic oxygenation during emergency intubation. METHODS: We searched Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid EMBASE, Ovid CENTRAL, and Scopus databases for randomized controlled trials and observational studies from 2006 until July 2016, without language restrictions. Gray literature, clinicaltrials.gov, and reference lists of articles were hand searched. We conducted a meta-analysis with random-effects models to evaluate first-pass success rates, incidence of hypoxemia, and lowest peri-intubation SpO2 between apneic oxygenation and standard oxygenation cases. RESULTS: A total of 1,386 studies were screened and 77 selected for full-text review. A total of 14 studies were included for qualitative analysis, and 8 studies (1,837 patients) underwent quantitative analysis. In the meta-analysis of 8 studies (1,837 patients), apneic oxygenation was associated with decreased hypoxemia (odds ratio [OR] 0.66; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.52 to 0.84), but was not associated with decreased severe hypoxemia (6 studies; 1,043 patients; OR 0.86; 95% CI 0.47 to 1.57) or life-threatening hypoxemia (5 studies; 1,003 patients; OR 0.90; 95% CI 0.52 to 1.55). Apneic oxygenation was associated with increased first-pass success rate (6 studies; 1,658 patients; OR 1.59; 95% CI 1.04 to 2.44) and increased lowest peri-intubation SpO2 (6 studies; 1,043 patients; weighted mean difference 2.2%; 95% CI 0.8% to 3.6%). CONCLUSION: In this meta-analysis, apneic oxygenation was associated with increased peri-intubation oxygen saturation, decreased rates of hypoxemia, and increased first-pass intubation success.			2017				4411
Effects of uric acid-lowering therapy in patients with chronic kidney disease: A meta-analysis		Su, X., Xu, B., Yan, B., Qiao, X. and Wang, L.				plos one	plos one	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The effects of uric acid-lowering therapy in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) remain uncertain. Therefore, we undertook a systematic review and meta-analysis to investigate the effects of uric acid-lowering agents on major clinical outcomes of CKD. DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, AND MEASUREMENTS: According to the pre-specified protocol that was registered with PROSPERO (No. CRD42016038030), we searched systematically in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library for trials up to February 2016. Prospective, randomized, controlled trials assessing the effects of uric acid-lowering agents on cardiovascular and kidney outcomes in patients with CKD were included. Random-effects analytical methods were used. RESULTS: Sixteen eligible trials were identified, providing data for 1,211 patients with CKD, including 146 kidney failure events and 69 cardiovascular events. Uric acid-lowering therapy produced a 55% relative risk (RR) reduction (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 31-64) for kidney failure events (P < 0.001), and a 60% RR reduction (95% CI, 17-62) for cardiovascular events (P < 0.001), but had no significant effect on the risk of all-cause death (RR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.50-1.46). The mean differences in rate of decline in the estimated glomerular filtration rate (4.10 mL/min/1.73 m2 per year slower in uric acid-lowering therapy recipients, 95% CI, 1.86-6.35) and the standardized mean differences in the change in proteinuria or albuminuria (-0.23 units of standard deviation greater in uric acid-lowering therapy recipients; 95% CI, -0.43 to -0.04) were also statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: Uric acid-lowering therapy seemed to improve kidney outcomes and reduce the risk of cardiovascular events in adults with CKD.			2017				5260
The effect of youth assertive community treatment: a systematic PRISMA review		Vijverberg, R., Ferdinand, R., Beekman, A. and van Meijel, B.				bmc psychiatry	bmc psychiatry	"BACKGROUND: During the past decades deinstitutionalisation policies have led to a transition from inpatient towards community mental health care. Many European countries implement Assertive Community Treatment (ACT) as an alternative for inpatient care for ""difficult to reach"" children and adolescents with severe mental illness. ACT is a well-organized low-threshold treatment modality; patients are actively approached in their own environment, and efforts are undertaken to strengthen the patient's motivation for treatment. The assumption is that ACT may help to avoid psychiatric hospital admissions, enhance cost-effectiveness, stimulate social participation and support, and reduce stigma. ACT has been extensively investigated in adults with severe mental illness and various reviews support its effectiveness in this patient group. However, to date there is no review available regarding the effectiveness of youth-ACT. It is unknown whether youth-ACT is as effective as it is in adults. This review aims to assess the effects of youth-ACT on severity of psychiatric symptoms, general functioning, and psychiatric hospital admissions. METHOD: A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed, Cochrane Library, PsychINFO and CINAHL published up to March 2017. To assess methodological quality of the included studies, the Oxford Centre of Evidence-Based Medicine grading system was used. RESULTS: Thirteen studies were included in this review. There are indications that youth-ACT is effective in reducing severity of psychiatric symptoms, improving general functioning, and reducing duration and frequency of psychiatric hospital admissions. CONCLUSIONS: The current literature on youth-ACT is limited but promising. There are indications that youth-ACT is effective in reducing severity of psychiatric symptoms, improving general functioning, and reducing duration and frequency of psychiatric hospital admissions. The effect of youth-ACT may be comparable with the effect of ACT in adults. Similar as in adult ACT, the studies on youth-ACT found effects that vary from small to large. Randomized experimental research designs are needed to further corroborate effectiveness."			2017				4382
Medical Cannabinoids in Children and Adolescents: A Systematic Review		Wong, S. S. and Wilens, T. E.				pediatrics	pediatrics	CONTEXT: Legalization of medical marijuana in many states has led to a widening gap between the accessibility and the evidence for cannabinoids as a medical treatment. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review published reports to identify the evidence base of cannabinoids as a medical treatment in children and adolescents. DATA SOURCES: Based on Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines, a search of PubMed, Medline, and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature databases was conducted in May 2017. STUDY SELECTION: Searching identified 2743 citations, and 103 full texts were reviewed. DATA EXTRACTION: Searching identified 21 articles that met inclusion criteria, including 22 studies with a total sample of 795 participants. Five randomized controlled trials, 5 retrospective chart reviews, 5 case reports, 4 open-label trials, 2 parent surveys, and 1 case series were identified. RESULTS: Evidence for benefit was strongest for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, with increasing evidence of benefit for epilepsy. At this time, there is insufficient evidence to support use for spasticity, neuropathic pain, posttraumatic stress disorder, and Tourette syndrome. LIMITATIONS: The methodological quality of studies varied, with the majority of studies lacking control groups, limited by small sample size, and not designed to test for the statistical significance of outcome measures. Studies were heterogeneous in the cannabinoid composition and dosage and lacked long-term follow-up to identify potential adverse effects. CONCLUSIONS: Additional research is needed to evaluate the potential role of medical cannabinoids in children and adolescents, especially given increasing accessibility from state legalization and potential psychiatric and neurocognitive adverse effects identified from studies of recreational cannabis use.			2017				4236
