Title	First Author First Name	First Author Surname	Corresponding Author First Name	Corresponding Author Surname	Corresponding Author Order	Publication Name	Alternate Name	Abstract	Url	Author Address	Year	DOI	Reference Type	PDF Relative Path	Keywords
Low-molecular-weight heparin thromboprophylaxis in medical-surgical critically ill patients: a systematic review		"Ribic, C., Lim, W., Cook, D. and Crowther, M."						"PURPOSE: The study aimed to systematically review the effect of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) thromboprophylaxis in medical-surgical critically ill patients in the intensive care unit. METHODS: In duplicate and independently, we searched for relevant articles using MEDLINE and EMBASE; we also contacted experts and reviewed reference lists. For included studies, we abstracted data on study and patient characteristics, LMWH use, clinical outcomes (venous thromboembolism [VTE], bleeding, and mortality), laboratory outcomes (anti-Xa levels and thrombocytopenia), and methodological quality. RESULTS: We included 8 prospective cohort studies and 1 randomized trial, with a total of 629 patients. Eight studies (n = 406 patients) reported anti-Xa levels and only 3 studies (n = 240 patients) reported on at least one clinical outcome. Low-molecular-weight heparin does not appear to bioaccumulate based on repeated measurements of trough anti-Xa levels. Thrombocytopenia occurred in 9.3% of patients receiving LMWH; heparin-induced thrombocytopenia was not reported. In studies reporting clinical outcomes, the frequency of VTE in patients receiving LMWH ranged from 5.1% to 15.5%, bleeding complications ranged from 7.2% to 23.1%, and mortality ranged from 1.4% to 7.4%. CONCLUSIONS: Low-molecular-weight heparin may be effective for thromboprophylaxis in medical-surgical critically ill patients, but no trials have compared LMWH against an alternative active strategy; thus, LMWH cannot be recommended routinely. Trials testing LMWH thromboprophylaxis are required, which examine patient-important end points such as the incidence and clinical consequences of VTE, bleeding, heparin-induced thrombocytopenia, and mortality."							690
Evidence-based systematic review: Oropharyngeal dysphagia behavioral treatments. Part II -- Impact of dysphagia treatment on normal swallow function		"Wheeler-Hegland, K., Ashford, J., Frymark, T., McCabe, D., Mullen, R., Musson, N., Hammond, C., Schooling, T. and Malcom Randall Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Gainesville F. L."						"This article is the second in a series of evidencebased systematic reviews. Data reported cover the impact of dysphagia behavioral interventions on swallow physiology in healthy adults. The behavioral treatments investigated were three postural interventionsDLside lying, chin tuck, and head rotationDLand four swallowing maneuversDLeffortful swallow, the Mendelsohn maneuver, supraglottic swallow, and supersupraglottic swallow. A systematic search of the dysphagia literature was conducted in 14 electronic databases. Seventeen studies meeting the inclusion criteria were evaluated for methodological quality with the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association's levels-of-evidence scheme and were characterized by research stage (i.e., exploratory, efficacy, effectiveness, costbenefit/ public policy research). Effect sizes were calculated when possible. All studies were exploratory research ranging from two to five of seven possible quality markers. The majority of studies (8 of 17) investigated effortful swallow. Three studies examined the Mendelsohn maneuver, chin tuck, supraglottic swallow, and super-supraglottic swallow and two studies addressed head rotation. No study addressed side lying. For nondisordered populations, the existing evidence demonstrates differential effects of postural changes and maneuvers on swallowing physiology. Some effects reinforced existing recommendations for the applications of the interventions, while others suggested new ways that the treatments may impact swallow function. Avenues for future research are suggested. Key words: chin-tuck posture, dysphagia, effortful swallow maneuver, evidence-based practice, evidence-based systematic review, head-rotation posture, Mendelsohn maneuver, rehabilitation, side-lying posture, super-supraglottic swallow maneuver, supraglottic swallow maneuver, treatment."							888
Technologically-assisted behaviour change: a systematic review of studies of novel technologies for the management of chronic illness		"Rosser, B. A., Vowles, K. E., Keogh, E., Eccleston, C. and Mountain, G. A."						"A systematic review was conducted to investigate the use of technology in achieving behaviour change in chronic illness. The areas reviewed were: (1) methods employed to adapt traditional therapy from a face-to-face medium to a computer-assisted platform; (2) targets of behaviour change; and (3) level of human (e.g. therapist) involvement. The initial literature search produced 2032 articles. A total of 45 articles reporting 33 separate interventions met the inclusion/exclusion criteria and were reviewed in detail. The majority of interventions reported a theoretical basis, with many arising from a cognitive-behavioural framework. There was a wide range of therapy content. Therapist involvement was reported in 73% of the interventions. A common problem was high participant attrition, which may have been related to reduced levels of human interaction. Instigating successful behaviour change through technological interventions poses many difficulties. However, there are potential benefits of delivering therapy in this way. For people with long-term health conditions, technological self-management systems could provide a practical method of understanding and monitoring their condition, as well as therapeutic guidance to alter maladaptive behaviour."							708
Frequency modulation (FM) system in auditory processing disorder: an evidence-based practice?		"Lemos, I. C., Jacob, R. T., Gejão, M. G., Bevilacqua, M. C., Feniman, M. R. and Ferrari, D. V."						"BACKGROUND: use of frequency modulation (FM) system in auditory processing disorder. AIM: to verify the existence of scientific evidence confirming the effectiveness of personal FM systems in the treatment of central auditory processing disorders (APD). For this purpose a systematic review of the literature was made, using data found in electronic databases (Medline, Lilacs and Cochrane library) as well as on the internet. The articles retrieved were analyzed according to the CONSORT statement and then classified by their evidence level. CONCLUSION: the search resulted in 1,589 references out of which only 19 met the inclusion criteria. All of the analyzed articles were classified as having low level of evidence (expert opinion or case studies). Strong scientific evidence supporting the use of personal FM systems for APD intervention was not found. Since such device is frequently recommended for the treatment of APD, it becomes essential to carry out studies with high scientific evidence that could safely guide clinical decision making on this subject."							455
Quality improvement strategies for children with asthma: a systematic review		"Bravata, D. M., Gienger, A. L., Holty, J. E., Sundaram, V., Khazeni, N., Wise, P. H., McDonald, K. M. and Owens, D. K."						"OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the evidence that quality improvement (QI) strategies can improve the processes and outcomes of outpatient pediatric asthma care. DATA SOURCES: Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Group database (January 1966 to April 2006), MEDLINE (January 1966 to April 2006), Cochrane Consumers and Communication Group database (January 1966 to May 2006), and bibliographies of retrieved articles. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized controlled trials, controlled before-after trials, or interrupted time series trials of English-language QI evaluations. INTERVENTIONS: Must have included 1 or more QI strategies for the outpatient management of children with asthma. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical status (eg, spirometric measures); functional status (eg, days lost from school); and health services use (eg, hospital admissions). RESULTS: Seventy-nine studies met inclusion criteria: 69 included at least some component of patient education, self-monitoring, or self-management; 13 included some component of organizational change; and 7 included provider education. Self-management interventions increased symptom-free days by approximately 10 days/y (P = .02) and reduced school absenteeism by about 0.1 day/mo (P = .03). Interventions of provider education and those that incorporated organizational changes were likely to report improvements in medication use. Quality improvement interventions that provided multiple educational sessions, had longer durations, and used combinations of instructional modalities were more likely to result in improvements for patients than interventions lacking these characteristics. CONCLUSIONS: A variety of QI interventions improve the outcomes and processes of care for children with asthma. Use of similar outcome measures and thorough descriptions of interventions would advance the study of QI for pediatric asthma care."							94
Routine use of oxygen in the treatment of myocardial infarction: systematic review		"Wijesinghe, M., Perrin, K., Ranchord, A., Simmonds, M., Weatherall, M. and Beasley, R."						"CONTEXT: International guidelines recommend the routine use of oxygen therapy in the treatment of myocardial infarction (MI). OBJECTIVE: To undertake a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled trials of oxygen therapy in MI. DATA SOURCES: Medline, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, EMBASE and CINHAL. STUDY SELECTION: Randomised placebo-controlled trials of oxygen therapy in MI. DATA EXTRACTION: The primary clinical outcome was mortality. RESULTS: Two of 51 potential studies met the inclusion criteria. The one study with substantive clinical outcome data reported that in uncomplicated MI, high-flow oxygen was associated with a non-significant increased risk of death (risk ratio 2.9, 95% CI 0.8 to 10.3, p = 0.08) and a greater serum aspartate aminotransferase level (difference 19.2 IU/ml, 95% CI 0 to 38.4, p = 0.05) than room air. CONCLUSION: The limited evidence that does exist suggests that the routine use of high-flow oxygen in uncomplicated MI may result in a greater infarct size and possibly increase the risk of mortality."							895
Instruments for the detection of depressive symptoms in people with intellectual disabilities: a systematic review		"Perez-Achiaga, N., Nelson, S., Hassiotis, A. and Redbridge Learning Disability Team, U. K. Natalia Perez-Achiaga redbridge gov uk"						"Affective disorders, particularly depression, are common in adults with intellectual disabilities. However the detection of these disorders is hindered by the varied presentation of depressive symptoms across the range of intellectual disability. We undertook a systematic review of the available English-language diagnostic instruments for depressive disorders for adults with all levels of intellectual disability. We appraised the studies based on the instruments' psychometric properties, sensitivity and specificity. We included 21 of 28 identified studies which contained original data on validity and reliability; the ;gold standard' ranged from clinical opinion to other established instruments, some of which had limited validation in people with intellectual disability. In view of the benefits of psychological treatments for common mental disorders, it is important to develop instruments to be used in monitoring cognitive as well as behavioural outcomes for people with intellectual disability and depressive disorders."							646
High-dose vitamin K supplementation reduces fracture incidence in postmenopausal women: a review of the literature		"Iwamoto, J., Sato, Y., Takeda, T. and Matsumoto, H."						"Although systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have concluded that vitamin K is effective in preventing fractures, the effect of vitamin K on the skeleton remains a matter of controversy. The objective of the present review of the literature was to evaluate the effect of vitamin K supplementation on the skeleton of postmenopausal women. PubMed was used to search the reliable literature for RCTs by using the search terms ""vitamin K(1) or vitamin K(2),"" ""bone,"" and ""postmenopausal women"" and the following inclusion criteria: approximately 50 or more subjects per group and study period of 2 years or longer. Seven RCTs met the inclusion criteria. The results of these RCTs showed that vitamin K(1) and vitamin K(2) supplementation reduced serum undercarboxylated osteocalcin levels regardless of dose but that it had inconsistent effects on serum total osteocalcin levels and no effect on bone resorption. Despite the lack of a significant change or the occurrence of only a modest increase in bone mineral density, high-dose vitamin K(1) and vitamin K(2) supplementation improved indices of bone strength in the femoral neck and reduced the incidence of clinical fractures. The review of the reliable literature confirmed the effect of vitamin K(1) and vitamin K(2) supplementation on the skeleton of postmenopausal women mediated by mechanisms other than bone mineral density and bone turnover."							354
Circulating matrix metalloproteinase-9 concentrations and abdominal aortic aneurysm presence: a meta-analysis		"Takagi, H., Manabe, H., Kawai, N., Goto, S. N. and Umemoto, T."						"To summarize the present evidence for an association between matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) and abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) presence, we performed a meta-analysis of case-control studies that compared circulating MMP-9 concentrations between patients with AAA and subjects without AAA. MEDLINE database was searched to identify all case-control studies. For each study, data regarding serum or plasma MMP-9 concentrations in both the AAA and control groups were used to generate standardized mean differences (SMDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Study-specific estimates were combined using inverse variance-weighted average of logarithmic SMDs in both fixed- and random-effects models. Our search identified eight eligible studies including 580 patients with AAA and 258 subjects without AAA. Pooled analysis demonstrated significantly higher circulating MMP-9 concentrations in the AAA group than those in the control group in random-effect models (SMD, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.23-1.17; P=0.004). There was significant study heterogeneity of results (P<0.00001) but no evidence of significant publication bias (P=0.1376). We found that, based on a systematic review and meta-analysis, circulating MMP-9 concentrations are higher in patients with AAA than those in subjects without AAA. Higher circulating MMP-9 concentrations are associated with AAA presence."							798
The role of lactobacillus probiotics in the treatment or prevention of urogenital infections--a systematic review		"Abad, C. L. and Safdar, N."						"Probiotics are increasingly being used to treat and prevent urogenital infections. However, a critical assessment of their efficacy in major urogenital infections is lacking. We report the results of a systematic review to determine the efficacy of probiotics for prevention or treatment of three major urogenital infections: bacterial vaginosis, vulvovaginal candidiasis, and urinary tract infection. Using multiple computerized databases, we extracted data from clinical trials using a lactobacillus-containing preparation to either prevent or treat a urogenital infection. Of 25 included studies, 18 studies used lactobacillus preparations for treatment or prevention of urogenital infections and seven studies focused solely on vaginal colonization. Four studies included patients with vaginal candidiasis, five included patients with urinary tract infections, and eight included patients with bacterial vaginosis. One included several types of genitourinary infections. Overall, lactobacilli were beneficial for the treatment of patients with bacterial vaginosis. No clear benefit was seen for candidiasis or urinary tract infection. Studies were heterogeneous, with some limited by a small population size. In conclusion, the use of certain lactobacillus strains such as L. rhamnosus GR-1 and L. reuteri for prevention and treatment of recurrent urogenital infection is promising, especially for recurrent bacterial vaginosis. Scant data on the use of probiotics for urinary tract infection and vulvovaginal candidiasis precludes definitive recommendations. Further research and larger studies on types of lactobacilli strains, dosage of lactobacilli, optimal route and vehicle of administration are needed."							2
Therapeutic trajectory of hyaluronic acid versus corticosteroids in the treatment of knee osteoarthritis: A systematic review and meta-analysis		"Bannuru, R. R., Natov, N. S., Obadan, I. E., Price, L. L., Schmid, C. H. and McAlindon, T. E."						"OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of intraarticular hyaluronic acid with corticosteroids for knee osteoarthritis (OA). METHODS: Our data sources were Medline, EMBASE, CINAHL, BIOSIS, and the Cochrane database, as well as hand- searched reviews, manuscripts, and supplements. For unpublished data we used author contacts. Randomized trials that reported effects of intraarticular hyaluronic acid versus corticosteroids on knee OA were selected based on inclusion criteria. Two reviewers extracted data independently. Using a random-effects model, we computed effect sizes for pain change from baseline at 2, 4, 8, 12, and 26 weeks. We also performed multivariate analyses accounting for within and between-study covariance. We performed sensitivity analyses for trials that reported intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis and blinding, and directly compared Hyalgan with methylprednisolone. RESULTS: The 7 eligible trials included 606 participants. Five reported ITT analyses. At week 2 the effect size was -0.39 (95% confidence interval [95% CI], -0.65, -0.12) favoring corticosteroids; at week 4 it was -0.01 (95% CI -0.23, 0.21) suggesting equal efficacy. At week 8 the effect size was 0.22 (95% CI -0.05, 0.49) favoring hyaluronic acid, and at week 12 it was 0.35 (95% CI 0.03, 0.66) favoring hyaluronic acid. At week 26 the effect size was 0.39 (95% CI 0.18, 0.59), favoring hyaluronic acid. The multivariate analyses and sensitivity analyses generated consistent results. CONCLUSION: From baseline to week 4, intraarticular corticosteroids appear to be relatively more effective for pain than intraarticular hyaluronic acid. By week 4, the 2 approaches have equal efficacy, but beyond week 8, hyaluronic acid has greater efficacy. Understanding this trend is useful to clinicians when treating knee OA."							53
Cost of liver transplantation: a systematic review and meta-analysis comparing the United States with other OECD countries		"van der Hilst, C. S., Ijtsma, A. J., Slooff, M. J., Tenvergert, E. M. and University Medical Center Groningen, Netherlands c s van der hilst rvb umcg nl"						"Large cost variations of liver transplantation are reported. The aim of this study was to assess cost differences of liver transplantation and clinical follow-up between the United States and other Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. Eight electronic databases were searched, and 2,000 citations published after 1990 with more than 10 transplantations, and with original cost data, were identified. A total of 30 articles included 5,975 liver transplantations. Meta-analysis was used to derive a combined mean using a random-effects model to test for heterogeneity between studies. Estimated mean cost of a U.S. liver transplantation was US$163,438 (US$145,277-181,598) compared to US$103,548 (US$85,514-121,582) for other OECD countries. Patient characteristics, disease characteristics, quality of the health care provider, and methodology could not explain this cost difference. Health system characteristics differed between the U.S. and other OECD countries. Cost differences in liver transplantation between these two groups may be largely explained by health system characteristics."							840
[LDL apheresis for the treatment of familial hypercholesterolemia. A systematic review]		"Zechmeister, I., Mathis, S., Guba, B. and Gartlehner, G."						"BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis is indicated in patients with familial hypercholesterolemia who are resistant to drug therapy. The study evaluates whether the various apheresis techniques available result in relevant improvement of clinical endpoints (cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, quality of life). MATERIAL AND METHODS: A systematic literature review in standard databases (Medline, EMBASE, CRD York, Cochrane, and others) was conducted. Extraction of core data, assessment of study quality and evidence rating according to the GRADE method were undertaken in an internal peer-review process. RESULTS: Evidence from the ten studies included weakly indicates an improvement in angina symptoms and reduced mortality. However, due to limited study quality, no reliable answers are possible concerning the question whether LDL apheresis results in reduced cardiovascular morbidity/mortality or improved quality of life. CONCLUSION: The available evidence indicates a possible net benefit of LDL apheresis. However, since the quality of the evidence is very low, treatment should be strictly restricted to patients with severe familial hypercholesterolemia who are resistant to standard care."							919
Is oral irrigation beneficial to gingival health as an adjunct to toothbrushing?		"Jin, L."						"DATA SOURCES: Relevant papers were identified by using Medline-PubMed and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. STUDY SELECTION: Papers were assessed for inclusion independently by two reviewers and only those published in the English language were chosen. Randomised controlled clinical trials (RCT) or controlled clinical trials (CCT) conducted in adults with good general health were selected. OUTCOME MEASURES: Evaluation parameters included changes in dental plaque, gingival bleeding/ inflammation and probing pocket depth. Study quality was assessed based upon study design, evaluation period, profiles of subjects, method of randomisation, blindness of examiners and completeness of followup assessment. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Data were extracted by three reviewers. As the selected studies showed considerable heterogeneity in the study designs, characteristics, outcome variables and results, a descriptive review of the data was presented instead of performing a meta-analysis. RESULTS: Seven papers (four RCT and three CCT) were included. Mean values and standard deviations were collected from the data. Data showed that oral irrigation does not reduce plaque scores more than toothbrushing or regular oral hygiene measures. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review suggests that oral irrigation as an adjunct to toothbrushing does not have a beneficial effect in reducing dental plaque, but it may improve gingival health."							369
Vitamin A supplementation during puerperium: systematic review		"Caminha Mde, F., Batista Filho, M., Fernandes, T. F., Arruda, I. K. and Diniz Ada, S."						"A systematic review on studies evaluating the effect of applying megadoses of vitamin A on the retinol concentrations in maternal milk and blood, as a short-term measure for preventing hypovitaminosis A, was conducted. Based on the strategy of the Brazilian Cochrane Center for randomized trials, 115 published papers were identified in PubMed. From these, through a set of inclusion/exclusion criteria, 14 articles published between 1993 and 2007 were selected. The effects of interventions with three posological regimens (200,000, 300,000 and 400,000 IU) of vitamin A were analyzed. Out of 11 experiments conducted on maternal milk, nine presented elevation of the retinol levels in comparison with the control group; out of nine that evaluated maternal blood, four showed elevation at varying times after applying megadoses of vitamin A. It was concluded that the results from administration of vitamin A at high doses were positive in 82% of the trials on maternal milk, but less notable in relation to maternal blood. No significant differences regarding the posological regimens applied were observed."							111
"Point-of-care testing for patients with diabetes, hyperlipidaemia or coagulation disorders in the general practice setting: a systematic review"		"Gialamas, A., St John, A., Laurence, C. O. and Bubner, T. K."						"BACKGROUND: Point-of-care testing (PoCT) is increasingly being used in the general practice setting and has the potential to provide improved health outcomes for patients. OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to systematically assess the literature relating to the analytical performance, clinical effectiveness, cost and satisfaction of patients and health professionals with PoCT for monitoring patients with diabetes, with hyperlipidaemia or requiring anticoagulant therapy in general practice. METHODS: Systematic review and synthesis of randomized and quasi-randomized trials during 1966-2007 was performed. PubMed, EMBASE, CINAHL, Current Contents, BIDS and the Cochrane Library databases were searched using key terms relating to PoCT for diabetes (glycosylated haemoglobin, urine albumin creatinine ratio), hyperlipidaemia (total cholesterol, triglycerides and high-density lipoprotein) and anticoagulant therapy (international normalized ratio) in the general practice setting. RESULTS: Nine papers from six randomized or quasi-randomized trials were included in the review. Large between-study heterogeneity made pooling of the data inappropriate. In terms of clinical effectiveness, no study found a significant difference between PoCT and pathology laboratory testing. There was a similar lack of data in relation to the analytical performance of PoCT, to cost outcomes and to patient and health professional satisfaction, making conclusions difficult to infer. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review does not provide robust evidence that PoCT in general practice improves patient health outcomes, that it has comparable analytical quality to pathology laboratory testing, that it is cost-effective compared to usual care or that patients and health professionals find PoCT satisfactory. The number of trials is low, the follow-up of patients is short and many of the trials did not investigate PoCT as a separate intervention."							266
The impact of mobile handheld technology on hospital physicians' work practices and patient care: a systematic review		"Prgomet, M., Georgiou, A. and Westbrook, J. I."						"The substantial growth in mobile handheld technologies has heralded the opportunity to provide physicians with access to information, resources, and people at the right time and place. But is this technology delivering the benefits to workflow and patient care promised by increased mobility? The authors conducted a systematic review to examine evidence regarding the impact of mobile handheld technology on hospital physicians' work practices and patient care, focusing on quantification of the espoused virtues of mobile technologies. The authors identified thirteen studies that demonstrated the ability of personal digital assistants (PDAs) to positively impact on areas of rapid response, error prevention, and data management and accessibility. The use of PDAs demonstrates the greatest benefits in contexts where time is a critical factor and a rapid response crucial. However, the extent to which these devices improved outcomes and workflow efficiencies because of their mobility was largely absent from the literature. The paucity of evidence calls for much needed future research that asks explicit questions about the impact the mobility of devices has on work practices and outcomes."							666
A review of tolerability and abuse liability of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid for insomnia in patients with schizophrenia		"Kantrowitz, J. T., Citrome, L. and Javitt, D. C."						"BACKGROUND: Approved therapeutic uses for gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) (or sodium oxybate), a gamma-aminobutyric acid type B and GHB receptor agonist, include narcolepsy in the United States and Europe and alcohol abuse treatment in Italy. Possible efficacy of GHB in schizophrenia has also been proposed. A tolerability concern regarding use of GHB is its abuse potential. Given the high comorbidity of substance disorders and schizophrenia, a systematic assessment of the published literature is crucial. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review was to assess the tolerability and abuse liability of GHB in the context of future clinical studies as a potential treatment for insomnia in patients with schizophrenia. METHODS: A literature search in English (inception through April 2009, inclusive) was conducted of MEDLINE, EMBASE, and PsycINFO using the search term GHB. All articles whose abstracts mentioned human use of GHB were read in their entirety. The reference sections of identified articles were reviewed for publications that might have been missed by the initial search. RESULTS: GHB is abused by a small percentage of people (<1%) as a ""club drug"" and is commonly associated with enhanced sexual experiences (65%), euphoria (41%), somnolence (71%), and confusion (24%), according to a recent study. A review of all available emergency room case series suggests that while GHB can be associated with serious coma necessitating intubation, the number of reported fatal cases associated with GHB appears limited. Clarity on the lethality of GHB is complicated by instability of GHB in postmortem samples and frequent concomitant ingestions. Furthermore, formal abuse liability studies do not support high abuse propensity for GHB, mainly because oversedation and dizziness may lead most individuals to find GHB unpleasant at high doses. As supported by 2 large studies, there is limited evidence to suggest widespread use as an agent in sexual assault. Years of clinical use in narcolepsy do not support the development of tolerance or withdrawal in those subjects without substance dependence. CONCLUSIONS: Tolerability and abuse liability issues, while a concern with GHB given its abuse potential, do not preclude further study of the potential use for insomnia in nondually diagnosed schizophrenia. Full cognizance must be taken of risk/benefit tradeoffs, and to the development of improved formulations with decreased abuse liability."							384
Ambulation after deep vein thrombosis: a systematic review		"Anderson, C. M., Overend, T. J., Godwin, J., Sealy, C. and Sunderji, A."						"PURPOSE: To systematically review the effects of early ambulation on development of pulmonary embolism (PE) and progression or development of a new thrombus in patients with acute deep vein thrombosis (DVT). METHODS: Medline, PubMed, CINAHL, EMBASE, PEDro, and Cochrane Library databases were searched from inception to June 2008. Study quality was appraised using the Jadad and PEDro scales. Meta-analyses were reported as relative risks (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). RESULTS: Four randomized trials were accepted. For development of a PE, the pooled relative risks for ambulation and compression versus bed rest and compression (RR = 0.63, 95% CI: 0.34-1.19) and for ambulation and compression versus bed rest alone (RR = 1.36, 95% CI: 0.57-3.29) were not significant. For progression of an existing thrombus or development of a new thrombus, the independent relative risks for ambulation and compression versus bed rest and compression (RR = 0.39, 95% CI: 0.13-1.14) and for ambulation and compression versus bed rest alone (RR = 0.56, 95% CI: 0.20-1.57) were also not significant. CONCLUSIONS: Given the clinical benefits of mobility, and because there was no significant difference between ambulation and bed rest for risk of developing a PE or development and progression of a new DVT in any of the studies, clinicians should be confident in prescribing ambulation in this population."							29
Successful complete cure en-bloc resection of large nonpedunculated colonic polyps by endoscopic submucosal dissection: a meta-analysis and systematic review		"Puli, S. R., Kakugawa, Y., Saito, Y., Antillon, D., Gotoda, T. and Antillon, M. R."						"BACKGROUND: Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) has emerged as one of the techniques to successfully resect large colonic polyps en bloc. Complete resection prevents the patient from going through transabdominal colonic resection. We sought to evaluate the proportion of successful en-bloc and complete cure en-bloc resection of large colonic polyps by ESD. METHODS: Studies that use ESD technique to resect large colonic polyps were selected. Successful en-bloc resection was defined as resection of the polyp in one piece. Successful complete cure en-bloc resection was defined as one piece with histologic disease-free-margin polyp resection. Articles were searched in Medline, PubMed, and Cochrane control trial registry. Pooled proportions were calculated by both fixed and random-effects model. RESULTS: The initial search identified 2,120 reference articles; 389 relevant articles were selected and reviewed. Data were extracted from 14 studies (n = 1,314) that met the inclusion criteria. The mean +/- standard error size of the polyps was 30.65 +/- 2.88 mm. Pooled proportion of en-bloc resection by the random-effects model was 84.91% (95% confidence interval, 77.82-90.82) and complete cure en-bloc resection was 75.39% (95% confidence interval, 66.69-82.21). The fixed-effects model was not used because of the heterogeneity of studies. CONCLUSIONS: ESD should be considered the best minimally invasive endoscopic technique in the treatment of large (>2 cm) sessile and flat polyps because it allows full pathological evaluation and cure in most patients. ESD offers an important alternative to surgery in the therapy of large sessile and flat polyps."							670
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome associated with atypical antipsychotic drugs		"Trollor, J. N., Chen, X. and Sachdev, P. S."						"Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) is a rare but potentially severe idiosyncratic adverse reaction usually seen in the context of treatment with antipsychotic drugs. Although NMS is historically associated with the classic or 'typical' antipsychotic drugs, it is also a potential adverse effect of atypical antipsychotic drugs. The widespread use of atypical antipsychotic drugs highlights the need to examine the data relating to the symptomatology, diagnosis, classification and management of NMS with these newer agents. We used MEDLINE and EMBASE to identify NMS case reports and systematic reviews published to June 2008 related to the atypical antipsychotic drugs clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, paliperidone, aripiprazole, ziprasidone, amisulpride and quetiapine. Case reports and reviews were systematically examined. Our review suggests that, in general, NMS associated with atypical antipsychotic drugs manifests in a typical manner. One notable exception is clozapine-induced NMS, which appears less likely to manifest with extrapyramidal features, including rigidity and tremor. The available literature highlights the divergence of opinion relating to the core diagnostic features of NMS and its conceptualization as a categorical versus dimensional disorder. Both these issues have relevance for the identification of atypical or milder forms of NMS, which are sometimes seen with atypical antipsychotic drugs."							823
[Endovascular deployment of stent graft in the ascending aorta. A systematic review]		"Geiger-Gritsch, S., Piso, B., Guba, B. and Felder-Puig, R."						"The endovascular deployment of stent graft in the ascending aorta was proposed for inclusion in the benefit catalogue of the Austrian Federal Ministry of Health. The efficacy and safety of this intervention was unclear, and therefore a systematic review was performed to support evidence-based decision making. Detailed searches for English- or German-language articles published between 2002 and 2008 were performed in a number of electronic databases. Internal validity of studies was judged by two authors independently. A total of 11 case reports but no prospective studies were identified through literature search. The case reports showed the technical feasibility of this intervention but allow no conclusions about its efficacy and safety. Therefore the endovascular deployment of stent graft in the ascending aorta must be considered as experimental and its inclusion in the benefit catalogue cannot be recommended."							262
Platelet count response to H. pylori treatment in patients with immune thrombocytopenic purpura with and without H. pylori infection: a systematic review		"Arnold, D. M., Bernotas, A., Nazi, I., Stasi, R., Kuwana, M., Liu, Y., Kelton, J. G. and Crowther, M. A."						"Eradication of H. pylori improves thrombocytopenia in some patients with immune thrombocytopenic purpura by mechanisms that remain obscure. Platelet count responses may occur independently of H. pylori infection as a result of the immune modulating effects of macrolide antimicrobials or the removal of other commensal bacteria. We performed a systematic review of the literature to determine the effect of H. pylori eradication therapy in patients with immune thrombocytopenic purpura by comparing the platelet response in patients who were, and who were not infected with H. pylori. MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane central registry and abstracts from the American Society of Hematology (from 2003) were searched in duplicate and independently without language or age restrictions. Eleven studies, 8 from Japan, were included enrolling 282 patients with immune thrombocytopenic purpura who received eradication therapy; 205 were H. pylori-positive and 77 were H. pylori-negative. The odds of achieving a platelet count response following eradication therapy were 14.5 higher (95% confidence interval 4.2 to 83.0) in patients with H. pylori infection (51.2% vs. 8.8%). No study reported bleeding or quality of life. Adverse events were reported in 12 patients. H. pylori eradication therapy was of little benefit for H. pylori-negative patients. These findings strengthen the causal association between H. pylori infection and immune thrombocytopenia in some patients. Randomized trials are needed to determine the applicability of H. pylori eradication therapy across diverse geographical regions."							43
Do antipsychotic drugs affect brain structure? A systematic and critical review of MRI findings		"Navari, S. and Dazzan, P."						"BACKGROUND: The potential effects of antipsychotic drugs on brain structure represent a key factor in understanding neuroanatomical changes in psychosis. This review addresses two issues: (1) do antipsychotic medications induce changes in total or regional human brain volumes and (2) do such effects depend on antipsychotic type? METHOD: A systematic review of studies reporting structural brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measures: (1) directly in association with antipsychotic use; and (2) in patients receiving lifetime treatment with antipsychotics in comparison with drug-naive patients or healthy controls. We searched Medline and EMBASE databases using the medical subject heading terms: 'antipsychotics' AND 'brain' AND (MRI NOT functional). The search included studies published up to 31 January 2007. Wherever possible, we reported the effect size of the difference observed. RESULTS: Thirty-three studies met our inclusion criteria. The results suggest that antipsychotics act regionally rather than globally on the brain. These volumetric changes are of a greater magnitude in association with typical than with atypical antipsychotic use. Indeed, there is evidence of a specific effect of antipsychotic type on the basal ganglia, with typicals specifically increasing the volume of these structures. Differential effects of antipsychotic type may also be present on the thalamus and the cortex, but data on these and other brain areas are more equivocal. CONCLUSIONS: Antipsychotic treatment potentially contributes to the brain structural changes observed in psychosis. Future research should take into account these potential effects, and use adequate sample sizes, to allow improved interpretation of neuroimaging findings in these disorders."							589
Safety of ruling out acute pulmonary embolism by normal computed tomography pulmonary angiography in patients with an indication for computed tomography: systematic review and meta-analysis		"Mos, I. C., Klok, F. A., Kroft, L. J., A, D. E. Roos, Dekkers, O. M. and Huisman, M. V."						"INTRODUCTION: Several outcome studies have ruled out acute pulmonary embolism (PE) by normal computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA). We performed a meta-analysis in order to determine the safety of this strategy in a specific group of patients with a strict indication for CTPA, that is, 'likely' or 'high' clinical probability for PE, an elevated D-dimer concentration, or both. METHODS: Studies that ruled out PE by normal CTPA, with or without subsequent normal bilateral compression ultrasonography (CUS), in patients with a strict indication for CTPA, were searched for in Medline, EMBASE, Web of Science and the Cochrane dataset. The primary endpoint was the occurrence of (fatal) venous thromboembolism (VTE) in a 3-month follow-up period. RESULTS: Three studies were identified that excluded PE by CTPA alone (2020 patients), and three studies that performed additional CUS of the legs after normal CTPA (1069 patients). The pooled incidence of VTE at 3 months was 1.2% [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.8-1.8] based on a normal CTPA result as a sole test, and 1.1% (95% CI 0.6-2.0) based on normal CTPA and negative CUS findings, resulting in negative predictive values of 98.8% (95% CI 98.2-99.2) and 98.9% (95% CI 98.0-99.4), respectively. This compares favorably with the VTE failure rate after normal pulmonary angiography (1.7%, 95% CI 1.0-2.7). The risk of fatal PE did not differ between the diagnostic strategies (0.6% vs. 0.5%). CONCLUSION: A normal CTPA result alone can safely exclude PE in all patients in whom CTPA is required to rule out this disease. There is no need for additional ultrasonography to rule out VTE in these patients."							570
Effectiveness of corticosteroid injections compared with physiotherapeutic interventions for lateral epicondylitis: a systematic review		"Barr, S., Cerisola, F. L. and Blanchard, V."						"OBJECTIVES: To compare the effectiveness of corticosteroid injections with physiotherapeutic interventions for the treatment of lateral epicondylitis (tennis elbow). DATA SOURCES: The electronic databases AMED, Cinahl, Medline and Embase were searched up to Week 12 2009. In addition, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Clinical Trials, the Metaregister of Controlled Clinical Trials and the Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro) were searched up to March 2009. REVIEW METHODS: All English-language randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that included participants with a clinical diagnosis of lateral epicondylitis, comparing corticosteroid injections with physiotherapeutic interventions, and used at least one clinically relevant outcome measure were included. The review authors extracted and analysed the data independently, using the PEDro scale to assess the methodological quality of each eligible study. RESULTS: Five RCTs were identified and included in the review. Four of the studies included the measurement of pain-free grip strength. Standardised mean differences (effect sizes) were calculated for this outcome measure and assessor's rating of severity at 3, 6, 12, 26 and 52 weeks for two of the RCTs. Large effect sizes were demonstrated in favour of corticosteroid injections at short-term follow-up. At intermediate- and long-term follow-up, medium-to-large effect sizes were demonstrated in favour of physiotherapeutic interventions compared with corticosteroid injections. However, at long-term follow-up, the research suggests that there is a small benefit of physiotherapeutic interventions compared with a 'wait and see' policy. CONCLUSION: Overall, the findings indicated that corticosteroid injections are effective at short-term follow-up, and physiotherapeutic interventions are effective at intermediate- and long-term follow-up. However, due to the limited number of high-quality RCTs and differences in the interventions and outcomes utilised within each of the included studies, any conclusions drawn must be interpreted with caution."							60
Limited knowledge on progestogen-only contraception and risk of venous thromboembolism		"Bergendal, A., Odlind, V., Persson, I. and Kieler, H."						"OBJECTIVE: To assess the current knowledge concerning progestogen-only contraception (POC) and risks of venous thromboembolism (VTE). DESIGN AND SETTING: Systematic review of the literature on observational and analytical studies reporting risk estimates for VTE in women exposed to POCs. METHODS AND MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We performed a computerized literature search in the Pub Med, Embase, and the Cochrane Library for studies published between 1966 and February 13, 2008. Based on the evaluated studies we calculated an overall risk estimate for VTE in association with POC. RESULTS: Four case-control studies and one cohort study were included. Of the case-control studies, three reported an increased risk and one a decreased risk of VTE. The cohort study found divergent results depending on the type of statistical analysis used. None of the results was statistically significant. The overall odds ratio for POC-associated VTE in the four case-control studies was 1.45 (95% CI=0.92-2.26). CONCLUSIONS: The risk of VTE associated with use of POCs is poorly investigated. The slightly elevated overall risk estimate might suggest an association between POC and an increased risk for VTE. The results must, however, be interpreted with caution due to the possibility of residual confounding. Well-designed studies with sufficient statistical power to evaluate risks of VTE with POC are warranted."							69
Efficacy of antidepressants and psychological therapies in irritable bowel syndrome: systematic review and meta-analysis		"Ford, A. C., Talley, N. J., Schoenfeld, P. S., Quigley, E. M. and Moayyedi, P."						"OBJECTIVE: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic functional gastrointestinal disorder. Evidence for treatment of the condition with antidepressants and psychological therapies is conflicting. DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs). MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register were searched (up to May 2008). SETTING: RCTs based in primary, secondary and tertiary care. PATIENTS: Adults with IBS. INTERVENTIONS: Antidepressants versus placebo, and psychological therapies versus control therapy or ""usual management"". MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Dichotomous symptom data were pooled to obtain a relative risk (RR) of remaining symptomatic after therapy, with a 95% confidence interval (CI). The number needed to treat (NNT) was calculated from the reciprocal of the risk difference. RESULTS: The search strategy identified 571 citations. Thirty-two RCTs were eligible for inclusion: 19 compared psychological therapies with control therapy or ""usual management"", 12 compared antidepressants with placebo, and one compared both psychological therapy and antidepressants with placebo. Study quality was generally good for antidepressant but poor for psychological therapy trials. The RR of IBS symptoms persisting with antidepressants versus placebo was 0.66 (95% CI, 0.57 to 0.78), with similar treatment effects for both tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The RR of symptoms persisting with psychological therapies was 0.67 (95% CI, 0.57 to 0.79). The NNT was 4 for both interventions. CONCLUSIONS: Antidepressants are effective in the treatment of IBS. There is less high-quality evidence for routine use of psychological therapies in IBS, but available data suggest these may be of comparable efficacy."							240
Directly observed antiretroviral therapy: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised clinical trials		"Ford, N., Nachega, J. B., Engel, M. E. and Mills, E. J."						"BACKGROUND: Directly observed therapy has been recommended to improve adherence for patients with HIV infection who are on highly active antiretroviral therapy, but the benefit and cost-effectiveness of this approach has not been established conclusively. We did a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised trials of directly observed versus self-administered antiretroviral treatment. METHODS: We did duplicate searches of databases (from inception to July 27, 2009), searchable websites of major HIV conferences (up to July, 2009), and lay publications and websites (March-July, 2009) to identify randomised trials assessing directly observed therapy to promote adherence to antiretroviral therapy in adults. Our primary outcome was virological suppression at study completion. We calculated relative risks (95% CIs), and pooled estimates using a random-effects method. FINDINGS: 12 studies met our inclusion criteria; four of these were done in groups that were judged to be at high risk of poor adherence (drug users and homeless people). Ten studies reported on the primary outcome (n=1862 participants); we calculated a pooled relative risk of 1.04 (95% CI 0.91-1.20, p=0.55), and noted moderate heterogeneity between the studies (I(2)= 53.8%, 95% CI 0-75.7, p=0.0247) for directly observed versus self-administered treatment. INTERPRETATION: Directly observed antiretroviral therapy seems to offer no benefit over self-administered treatment, which calls into question the use of such an approach to support adherence in the general patient population. FUNDING: None."							241
The effect of feedback to general practitioners on quality of care for people with type 2 diabetes. A systematic review of the literature		"Guldberg, T. L., Lauritzen, T., Kristensen, J. K. and Vedsted, P."						"BACKGROUND: There have been numerous efforts to improve and assure the quality of treatment and follow-up of people with Type 2 diabetes (PT2D) in general practice. Facilitated by the increasing usability and validity of guidelines, indicators and databases, feedback on diabetes care is a promising tool in this aspect. Our goal was to assess the effect of feedback to general practitioners (GPs) on the quality of care for PT2D based on the available literature. METHODS: Systematic review searches were conducted using October 2008 updates of Medline (Pubmed), Cochrane library and Embase databases. Additional searches in reference lists and related articles were conducted. Papers were included if published in English, performed as randomized controlled trials, studying diabetes, having general practice as setting and using feedback to GPs on diabetes care. The papers were assessed according to predefined criteria. RESULTS: Ten studies complied with the inclusion criteria. Feedback improved the care for PT2D, particularly process outcomes such as foot exams, eye exams and Hba1c measurements. Clinical outcomes like lowering of blood pressure, Hba1c and cholesterol levels were seen in few studies. Many process and outcome measures did not improve, while none deteriorated. Meta analysis was unfeasible due to heterogeneity of the studies included. Two studies used electronic feedback. CONCLUSION: Based on this review, feedback seems a promising tool for quality improvement in diabetes care, but more research is needed, especially of electronic feedback."							293
Systematic review on quality control for drug management programs: is quality reported in the literature?		"Holtorf, A. P., McAdam-Marx, C., Schaaf, D., Eng, B. and Oderda, G."						"BACKGROUND: Maintaining quality of care while managing limited healthcare resources is an ongoing challenge in healthcare. The objective of this study was to evaluate how the impact of drug management programs is reported in the literature and to identify potentially existing quality standards. METHODS: This analysis relates to the published research on the impact of drug management on economic, clinical, or humanistic outcomes in managed care, indemnity insurance, VA, or Medicaid in the USA published between 1996 and 2007. Included articles were systematically analyzed for study objective, study endpoints, and drug management type. They were further categorized by drug management tool, primary objective, and study endpoints. RESULTS: None of the 76 included publications assessed the overall quality of drug management tools. The impact of 9 different drug management tools used alone or in combination was studied in pharmacy claims, medical claims, electronic medical records or survey data from either patient, plan or provider perspective using an average of 2.1 of 11 possible endpoints. A total of 68% of the studies reported the impact on plan focused endpoints, while the clinical, the patient or the provider perspective were studied to a much lower degree (45%, 42% and 12% of the studies). Health outcomes were only accounted for in 9.2% of the studies. CONCLUSION: Comprehensive assessment of quality considering plan, patient and clinical outcomes is not yet applied. There is no defined quality standard. Benchmarks including health outcomes should be determined and used to improve the overall clinical and economic effectiveness of drug management programs."							326
Systematic review of effect of community-level interventions to reduce maternal mortality		"Kidney, E., Winter, H. R., Khan, K. S., Gülmezoglu, A. M., Meads, C. A., Deeks, J. J. and Macarthur, C."						"BACKGROUND: The objective was to provide a systematic review of the effectiveness of community-level interventions to reduce maternal mortality. METHODS: We searched published papers using Medline, Embase, Cochrane library, CINAHL, BNI, CAB ABSTRACTS, IBSS, Web of Science, LILACS and African Index Medicus from inception or at least 1982 to June 2006; searched unpublished works using National Research Register website, metaRegister and the WHO International Trial Registry portal. We hand searched major references.Selection criteria were maternity or childbearing age women, comparative study designs with concurrent controls, community-level interventions and maternal death as an outcome. We carried out study selection, data abstraction and quality assessment independently in duplicate. RESULTS: We found five cluster randomised controlled trials (RCT) and eight cohort studies of community-level interventions. We summarised results as odds ratios (OR) and confidence intervals (CI), combined using the Peto method for meta-analysis. Two high quality cluster RCTs, aimed at improving perinatal care practices, showed a reduction in maternal mortality reaching statistical significance (OR 0.62, 95% CI 0.39 to 0.98). Three equivalence RCTs of minimal goal-oriented versus usual antenatal care showed no difference in maternal mortality (1.09, 95% CI 0.53 to 2.25). The cohort studies were of low quality and did not contribute further evidence. CONCLUSION: Community-level interventions of improved perinatal care practices can bring about a reduction in maternal mortality. This challenges the view that investment in such interventions is not worthwhile. Programmes to improve maternal mortality should be evaluated using randomised controlled techniques to generate further evidence."							401
Whole plant cannabis extracts in the treatment of spasticity in multiple sclerosis: a systematic review		"Lakhan, S. E. and Rowland, M."						"BACKGROUND: Cannabis therapy has been considered an effective treatment for spasticity, although clinical reports of symptom reduction in multiple sclerosis (MS) describe mixed outcomes. Recently introduced therapies of combined Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) extracts have potential for symptom relief with the possibility of reducing intoxication and other side effects. Although several past reviews have suggested that cannabinoid therapy provides a therapeutic benefit for symptoms of MS, none have presented a methodical investigation of newer cannabinoid treatments in MS-related spasticity. The purpose of the present review was to systematically evaluate the effectiveness of combined THC and CBD extracts on MS-related spasticity in order to increase understanding of the treatment's potential effectiveness, safety and limitations. METHODS: We reviewed MEDLINE/PubMed, Ovid, and CENTRAL electronic databases for relevant studies using randomized controlled trials. Studies were included only if a combination of THC and CBD extracts was used, and if pre- and post-treatment assessments of spasticity were reported. RESULTS: Six studies were systematically reviewed for treatment dosage and duration, objective and subjective measures of spasticity, and reports of adverse events. Although there was variation in the outcome measures reported in these studies, a trend of reduced spasticity in treated patients was noted. Adverse events were reported in each study, however combined TCH and CBD extracts were generally considered to be well-tolerated. CONCLUSION: We found evidence that combined THC and CBD extracts may provide therapeutic benefit for MS spasticity symptoms. Although some objective measures of spasticity noted improvement trends, there were no changes found to be significant in post-treatment assessments. However, subjective assessment of symptom relief did often show significant improvement post-treatment. Differences in assessment measures, reports of adverse events, and dosage levels are discussed."							439
Moxibustion and other acupuncture point stimulation methods to treat breech presentation: a systematic review of clinical trials		"Li, X., Hu, J., Wang, X., Zhang, H. and Liu, J."						"BACKGROUND: Moxibustion, acupuncture and other acupoint stimulations are commonly used for the correction of breech presentation. This systematic review aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of moxibustion and other acupoint stimulations to treat breech presentation. METHODS: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and controlled clinical trials (CCTs) on moxibustion, acupuncture or any other acupoint stimulating methods for breech presentation in pregnant women. All searches in PubMed, the Cochrane Library (2008 Issue 2), China National Knowledge Information (CNKI), Chinese Scientific Journal Database (VIP) and WanFang Database ended in July 2008. Two authors extracted and analyzed the data independently. RESULTS: Ten RCTs involving 2090 participants and seven CCTs involving 1409 participants were included in the present study. Meta-analysis showed significant differences between moxibustion and no treatment (RR 1.35, 95% CI 1.20 to 1.51; 3 RCTs). Comparison between moxibustion and knee-chest position did not show significant differences (RR 1.30, 95% CI 0.95 to 1.79; 3 RCTs). Moxibustion plus other therapeutic methods showed significant beneficial effects (RR 1.36, 95% CI 1.21 to 1.54; 2 RCTs). Laser stimulation was more effective than assuming the knee-chest position plus pelvis rotating. Moxibustion was more effective than no treatment (RR 1.29, 95% CI 1.17 to 1.42; 2 CCTs) but was not more effective than the knee-chest position treatment (RR 1.22, 95% CI 1.11 to 1.34; 2 CCTs). Laser stimulation at Zhiyin (BL67) was more effective than the knee-chest position treatment (RR 1.30, 95% CI 1.10 to 1.54; 2 CCTs,). CONCLUSION: Moxibustion, acupuncture and laser acupoint stimulation tend to be effective in the correction of breech presentation."							459
Application of biomedical informatics to chronic pediatric diseases: a systematic review		"Moeinedin, F., Moineddin, R., Jadad, A. R., Hamid, J. S., To, T. and Beyene, J."						"BACKGROUND: Chronic diseases affect millions of children worldwide leading to substantial disease burden to the children and their families as well as escalating health care costs. The increasing trend in the prevalence of complex pediatric chronic diseases requires innovative and optimal delivery of care. Biomedical informatics applications play an important role in improving health outcomes while being cost-effective. However, their utility in pediatric chronic diseases has not been studied in a comprehensive and systematic way. The objective of this study was to conduct a systematic review of the effects of biomedical informatics applications in pediatric chronic diseases. METHODS: A comprehensive literature search was conducted using MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library and EMBASE databases from inception of each database to September 2008. We included studies of any methodological type and any language that applied biomedical informatics to chronic conditions in children and adolescents 18 years of age or younger. Two independent reviewers carried out study selection and data extraction. Quality assessment was performed using a study design evaluation instrument to appraise the strength of the studies and their methodological adequacy. Because of heterogeneity in the conditions and outcomes we studied, a formal meta-analysis was not performed. RESULTS: Based on our search strategy, 655 titles and abstracts were reviewed. From this set we identified 27 relevant articles that met our inclusion criteria. The results from these studies indicated that biomedical informatics applications have favourable clinical and patient outcomes including, but not limited to, reduced number of emergency room visits, improved knowledge on disease management, and enhanced satisfaction. Seventy percent of reviewed papers were published after year 2000, 89% of users were patients and 11% were either providers or caregivers. The majority (96%) of the selected studies reported improved outcomes. CONCLUSION: Published studies suggested positive impacts of informatics predominantly in pediatric asthma. As electronic tools become more widely adopted, there will be opportunities to improve patient care in a wide range of chronic illnesses through informatics solutions."							558
Effects of case management for frail older people or those with chronic illness: a systematic review		"Oeseburg, B., Wynia, K., Middel, B. and Reijneveld, S. A."						"BACKGROUND: Financial constraints and quality requirements demand that interventions selected are most effective. A previous systematic review of the effectiveness of the patient advocacy case management model was not found. OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of patient advocacy case management on service use and healthcare costs for impaired older people or adults with a chronic somatic disease living in the community. METHODS: A literature search was conducted in Medline, CINAHL, and Cochrane databases. Included were English-language randomized controlled trials evaluating service use and costs of the patient advocacy case management model for people with a chronic somatic disease or for impaired older people living in the community. RESULTS: Eight relevant studies were identified and included after evaluation of methodological quality. All studies concerned frail or impaired older people, and one study also included people with a somatic chronic disease. In none of the studies was evidence found for clinically relevant increase of service use and costs, whereas in two studies, it was reported that patient advocacy case management led to decreased service use and to savings in costs. DISCUSSION: Patient advocacy case management does not increase service use and costs and was effective in decreasing service use and costs in two studies. These conclusions are an indication for quality improvement through the combination of its organizational benefits. Therefore, there should be more priority given to further implementation of patient advocacy case management for those with chronic illness and impaired older people. Nursing can play an important role in this development."							611
Finding the optimal postnatal dexamethasone regimen for preterm infants at risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia: a systematic review of placebo-controlled trials		"Onland, W., Offringa, M., De Jaegere, A. P. and van Kaam, A. H."						"CONTEXT: Postnatal dexamethasone therapy reduces the incidence of bronchopulmonary dysplasia in preterm infants but may be associated with an increased risk for adverse neurodevelopmental outcome. OBJECTIVE: Our goal was to determine if the effects of dexamethasone on mortality and pulmonary and neurodevelopmental sequelae in preterm infants are modified by the cumulative dose given. METHODS: Randomized, controlled trials comparing dexamethasone with placebo in ventilated preterm infants >7 days old were identified by searching the electronic databases and the abstracts from the Pediatric Academic societies and by performing manual reference searches. Two reviewers independently assessed eligibility and quality of trials and extracted data on study design, patient characteristics, and relevant outcomes. Original trialists were asked to provide additional data. RESULTS: Sixteen trials including 1136 patients were analyzed by using meta-analysis and metaregression. Additional data were provided by 12 original trialists. Trials with a moderately early (7- to 14-day) or delayed (>3-week) postnatal treatment onset were analyzed separately. Higher dexamethasone doses reduced the relative risk for the combined outcome, mortality or bronchopulmonary dysplasia, with the largest effect in trials that used a cumulative dose of >4 mg/kg. No effect was found of doses on the risk of neurodevelopmental sequelae in the delayed treatment studies, but in the moderately-early-treatment studies the risk of mortality or cerebral palsy decreased by 6.2%, and the risk of a Mental Developmental Index below -2 SDs decreased by 6.6% for each incremental mg/kg cumulative dexamethasone dose. CONCLUSIONS: Higher cumulative dexamethasone doses administered after the first week of life may decrease the risk for bronchopulmonary dysplasia without increasing the risk for neurodevelopmental sequelae in ventilated preterm infants. A large randomized trial is needed to confirm or refute these findings."							618
Increasing the demand for childhood vaccination in developing countries: a systematic review		"Shea, B., Andersson, N. and Henry, D."						"BACKGROUND: Attempts to maintain or increase vaccination coverage almost all focus on supply side interventions: improving availability and delivery of vaccines. The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of efforts to increase demand is uncertain. METHODS: We performed a systematic review of studies that provided quantitative estimates of the impact of demand side interventions on uptake of routine childhood vaccination. We retrieved studies published up to Sept 2008. RESULTS: The initial search retrieved 468 potentially eligible studies, including four systematic reviews and eight original studies of the impact of interventions to increase demand for vaccination. We identified only two randomised controlled trials. Interventions with an impact on vaccination uptake included knowledge translation (KT) (mass media, village resource rooms and community discussions) and non-KT initiatives (incentives, economic empowerment, household visits by extension workers). Most claimed to increase vaccine coverage by 20 to 30%. Estimates of the cost per vaccinated child varied considerably with several in the range of $10-20 per vaccinated child. CONCLUSION: Most studies reviewed here represented a low level of evidence. Mass media campaigns may be effective, but the impact depends on access to media and may be costly if run at a local level. The persistence of positive effects has not been investigated. The economics of demand side interventions have not been adequately assessed, but available data suggest that some may be very cost-effective."							743
"The effect of alcohol advertising, marketing and portrayal on drinking behaviour in young people: systematic review of prospective cohort studies"		"Smith, L. A. and Foxcroft, D. R."						"BACKGROUND: The effect of alcohol portrayals and advertising on the drinking behaviour of young people is a matter of much debate. We evaluated the relationship between exposure to alcohol advertising, marketing and portrayal on subsequent drinking behaviour in young people by systematic review of cohort (longitudinal) studies. METHODS: studies were identified in October 2006 by searches of electronic databases, with no date restriction, supplemented with hand searches of reference lists of retrieved articles. Cohort studies that evaluated exposure to advertising or marketing or alcohol portrayals and drinking at baseline and assessed drinking behaviour at follow-up in young people were selected and reviewed. RESULTS: seven cohort studies that followed up more than 13,000 young people aged 10 to 26 years old were reviewed. The studies evaluated a range of different alcohol advertisement and marketing exposures including print and broadcast media. Two studies measured the hours of TV and music video viewing. All measured drinking behaviour using a variety of outcome measures. Two studies evaluated drinkers and non-drinkers separately. Baseline non-drinkers were significantly more likely to have become a drinker at follow-up with greater exposure to alcohol advertisements. There was little difference in drinking frequency at follow-up in baseline drinkers. In studies that included drinkers and non-drinkers, increased exposure at baseline led to significant increased risk of drinking at follow-up. The strength of the relationship varied between studies but effect sizes were generally modest. All studies controlled for age and gender, however potential confounding factors adjusted for in analyses varied from study to study. Important risk factors such as peer drinking and parental attitudes and behaviour were not adequately accounted for in some studies. CONCLUSION: data from prospective cohort studies suggest there is an association between exposure to alcohol advertising or promotional activity and subsequent alcohol consumption in young people. Inferences about the modest effect sizes found are limited by the potential influence of residual or unmeasured confounding."							766
Bach Flower Remedies for psychological problems and pain: a systematic review		"Thaler, K., Kaminski, A., Chapman, A., Langley, T. and Gartlehner, G."						"BACKGROUND: Bach Flower Remedies are thought to help balance emotional state and are commonly recommended by practitioners for psychological problems and pain. We assessed whether Bach Flower Remedies (BFRs) are safe and efficacious for these indications by performing a systematic review of the literature. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE, Embase, AMED, and the Cochrane Library from inception until June 2008 and performed a hand-search of references from relevant key articles. For efficacy, we included all prospective studies with a control group. For safety, we also included retrospective, observational studies with more than 30 subjects. Two authors abstracted data and determined risk of bias using a recognised rating system of trial quality. RESULTS: Four randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and two additional retrospective, observational studies were identified and included in the review. Three RCTs of BFRs for students with examination anxiety, and one RCT of BFRs for children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) showed no overall benefit in comparison to placebo. Due to the number and quality of the studies the strength of the evidence is low or very low. We did not find any controlled prospective studies regarding the efficacy of BFRs for pain. Only four of the six studies included for safety explicitly reported adverse events. CONCLUSION: Most of the available evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of BFRs has a high risk of bias. We conclude that, based on the reported adverse events in these six trials, BFRs are probably safe. Few controlled prospective trials of BFRs for psychological problems and pain exist. Our analysis of the four controlled trials of BFRs for examination anxiety and ADHD indicates that there is no evidence of benefit compared with a placebo intervention."							811
