Title	First Author First Name	First Author Surname	Corresponding Author First Name	Corresponding Author Surname	Corresponding Author Order	Publication Name	Alternate Name	Abstract	Url	Author Address	Year	DOI	Reference Type	PDF Relative Path	Keywords
"Timing matters in hip fracture surgery: patients operated within 48 hours have better outcomes. A meta-analysis and meta-regression of over 190,000 patients"		"Moja, L., Piatti, A., Pecoraro, V., Ricci, C., Virgili, G., Salanti, G., Germagnoli, L., Liberati, A. and Banfi, G."				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: To assess the relationship between surgical delay and mortality in elderly patients with hip fracture. Systematic review and meta-analysis of retrospective and prospective studies published from 1948 to 2011. Medline (from 1948), Embase (from 1974) and CINAHL (from 1982), and the Cochrane Library. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals for each study were extracted and pooled with a random effects model. Heterogeneity, publication bias, bayesian analysis, and meta-regression analyses were done. Criteria for inclusion were retro- and prospective elderly population studies, patients with operated hip fractures, indication of timing of surgery and survival status. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: There were 35 independent studies, with 191,873 participants and 34,448 deaths. The majority considered a cut-off between 24 and 48 hours. Early hip surgery was associated with a lower risk of death (pooled odds ratio (OR) 0.74, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.67 to 0.81; P<0.000) and pressure sores (0.48, 95% CI 0.38 to 0.60; P<0.000). Meta-analysis of the adjusted prospective studies gave similar results. The bayesian probability predicted that about 20% of future studies might find that early surgery is not beneficial for decreasing mortality. None of the confounders (e.g. age, sex, data source, baseline risk, cut-off points, study location, quality and year) explained the differences between studies. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Surgical delay is associated with a significant increase in the risk of death and pressure sores. Conservative timing strategies should be avoided. Orthopaedic surgery services should ensure the majority of patients are operated within one or two days."			2012				2482
Disease-modifying drugs for multiple sclerosis in pregnancy: A systematic review		"Lu, E., Wang, B. W., Guimond, C., Synnes, A., Sadovnick, D. and Tremlett, H."				neurology	neurology	"OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the literature regarding safety of disease-modifying drug (DMD) use during pregnancy on perinatal and developmental outcomes in offspring of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). METHODS: A PubMed and EMBASE search up to February 2012 was conducted with a manual search of references from relevant articles. Selected studies were evaluated using internationally accepted criteria. RESULTS: Fifteen studies identified 761 interferon [beta]-, 97 glatiramer acetate-, and 35 natalizumab-exposed pregnancies. Study quality ranged from poor to good; no study was rated excellent. Small sample sizes limited most studies. Compared with data for unexposed pregnancies, fair- to good-quality prospective cohort studies reported that interferon [beta] exposure was associated with lower mean birth weight, shorter mean birth length, and preterm birth (<37 weeks), but not low birth weight (<2,500 g), cesarean delivery, congenital anomaly (including malformation), or spontaneous abortion. Fewer studies of fair quality were available for glatiramer acetate and natalizumab. Glatiramer acetate exposure was not associated with lower mean birth weight, congenital anomaly, preterm birth, or spontaneous abortion. Natalizumab exposure did not appear to be associated with shorter mean birth length, lower mean birth weight, or lower mean gestational age. No studies examined mitoxantrone or fingolimod exposure. One study of paternal DMD use during conception found no effect on gestational age or birth weight. Few studies examined longer-term developmental outcomes. CONCLUSION: Further studies are needed to determine the potential risks associated with preconceptional and in utero DMD exposure in patients with MS. Discontinuation of DMDs before conception is still recommended."			2012				1635
Comparison of indacaterol with tiotropium or twice-daily long-acting [beta] -agonists for stable COPD: a systematic review		"Rodrigo, G. J. and Neffen, H."				chest	chest	"BACKGROUND: Bronchodilators are central to the symptomatic management of patients with COPD.Previous data have shown that inhaled indacaterol improved numerous clinical outcomes over placebo. METHODS: This systematic review explored the efficacy and safety of indacaterol in comparison with tiotropium or bid long-acting [beta] 2 -agonists (TD-LABAs) for treatment of moderate to severe COPD. Randomized controlled trials were identified after a search of different databases of published and unpublished trials. RESULTS: Five trials (5,920 participants) were included. Compared with tiotropium, indacaterol showed statistically and clinically significant reductions in the use of rescue medication and dyspnea(43% greater likelihood of achieving a minimal clinically important difference [MCID] in the transitional dyspnea index [TDI]; number needed to treat for benefit [NNTB] 5 10). Additionally,the MCID in health status was more likely to be achieved with indacaterol than with tiotropium (OR = 1.43; 95% CI, 1.22-1.68; P = .00001; [NNTB ]= 10). Trough FEV 1 was significantly higher at the end of treatment with indacaterol than with TD-LABAs (80 mL, P = .00001). Similarly, indacaterol signifi cantly improved dyspnea (61% greater likelihood of achieving an MCID in TDI, P = .008) and health status (21% greater likelihood of achieving an MCID in St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire, P 5 .04) than TD-LABA. Indacaterol showed similar levels of safety and tolerability to both comparators. CONCLUSIONS: Available evidence suggests that indacaterol may prove useful as an alternative to tiotropium or TD-LABA due to its effects on health status, dyspnea, and pulmonary function."			2012				1324
Yoga for breast cancer patients and survivors: a systematic review and meta-analysis		"Cramer, H., Lange, S., Klose, P., Paul, A. and Dobos, G."				bmc cancer	bmc cancer	"BACKGROUND: Many breast cancer patients and survivors use yoga to cope with their disease. The aim of this review was to systematically assess and meta-analyze the evidence for effects of yoga on health-related quality of life and psychological health in breast cancer patients and survivors. METHODS: MEDLINE, PsycInfo, EMBASE, CAMBASE, and the Cochrane Library were screened through February 2012. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing yoga to controls were analyzed when they assessed health-related quality of life or psychological health in breast cancer patients or survivors. Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool. Standardized mean differences (SMD) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated. RESULTS: Twelve RCTs with a total of 742 participants were included. Seven RCTs compared yoga to no treatment; 3 RCTs compared yoga to supportive therapy; 1 RCT compared yoga to health education; and 1 RCT compared a combination of physiotherapy and yoga to physiotherapy alone. Evidence was found for short-term effects on global health-related quality of life (SMD = 0.62 [95% CI: 0.04 to 1.21]; P = 0.04), functional (SMD = 0.30 [95% CI: 0.03 to 0.57), social (SMD = 0.29 [95% CI: 0.08 to 0.50]; P < 0.01), and spiritual well-being (SMD = 0.41 [95% CI: 0.08; 0.74]; P = 0.01). These effects were, however, only present in studies with unclear or high risk of selection bias. Short-term effects on psychological health also were found: anxiety (SMD = -1.51 [95% CI: -2.47; -0.55]; P < 0.01), depression (SMD = -1.59 [95% CI: -2.68 to -0.51]; P < 0.01), perceived stress (SMD?=?-1.14 [95% CI:-2.16; -0.12]; P = 0.03), and psychological distress (SMD = -0.86 [95% CI:-1.50; -0.22]; P < 0.01). Subgroup analyses revealed evidence of efficacy only for yoga during active cancer treatment but not after completion of active treatment. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review found evidence for short-term effects of yoga in improving psychological health in breast cancer patients. The short-term effects on health-related quality of life could not be clearly distinguished from bias. Yoga can be recommended as an intervention to improve psychological health during breast cancer treatment."			2012				1354
The impact of health insurance in Africa and Asia: a systematic review		"Spaan, E., Mathijssen, J., Tromp, N., McBain, F., ten Have, A. and Baltussen, R."				bulletin of the world health organization	bulletin of the world health organization	"Objective To evaluate the impact of health insurance on resource mobilization, financial protection, service utilization, quality of care, social inclusion and community empowerment in low- and lower-middle-income countries in Africa and Asia. Methods A systematic search for randomized controlled trials, quasi-experimental and observational studies published before the end of 2011 was conducted in 20 literature databases, reference lists of relevant studies, web sites and the grey literature. Study quality was assessed with a quality grading protocol. Findings Inclusion criteria were met by 159 studies - 68 in Africa and 91 in Asia. Most African studies reported on community-based health insurance (CBHI) and were of relatively high quality; social health insurance (SHI) studies were mostly Asian and of medium quality. Only one Asian study dealt with private health insurance (PHI). Most studies were observational; four had randomized controls and 20 had a quasi-experimental design. Financial protection, utilization and social inclusion were far more common subjects than resource mobilization, quality of care or community empowerment. Strong evidence shows that CBHI and SHI improve service utilization and protect members financially by reducing their out-of-pocket expenditure, and that CBHI improves resource mobilization too. Weak evidence points to a positive effect of both SHI and CBHI on quality of care and social inclusion. The effect of SHI and CBHI on community empowerment is inconclusive. Findings for PHI are inconclusive in all domains because of insufficient studies. Conclusion Health insurance offers some protection against the detrimental effects of user fees and a promising avenue towards universal health-care coverage."			2012				1825
Adverse events of pirfenidone for the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		"Jiang, C., Huang, H., Liu, J., Wang, Y., Lu, Z. and Xu, Z."				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: Pirfenidone (PFD) is a novel antifibrotic agent approved for patients with pulmonary fibrosis. However, there are concerns regarding toxicity of the drug. In this meta-analysis, we analyzed the adverse events (AEs) of PFD for the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis. METHODS: We performed a systematic search of PubMed, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials for trials published between January 1999 and October 2011. Data extracted from literature were analyzed with Review manager 5.0.24. RESULTS: The results of six randomized controlled trials (1073 participants) revealed that the number of individuals who discontinued PFD therapy was significantly higher than patients receiving placebo. The PFD group had a significantly higher rate of gastrointestinal (nausea, dyspepsia, diarrhea, and anorexia), neurological (dizziness and fatigue), and dermatological (photosensitivity and rash) AEs compared to the placebo group. CONCLUSIONS: PFD used for the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis is not so safe or well-tolerated. Notably, gastrointestinal, neurological and dermatological adverse effects were more common in patients receiving PFD therapy, and therefore appropriate precaution is needed."			2012				2343
Visual acuity improvements after implantation of toric intraocular lenses in cataract patients with astigmatism: a systematic review		"Agresta, B., Knorz, M. C., Donatti, C. and Jackson, D."				bmc ophthalmology	bmc ophthalmology	"BACKGROUND: Cataracts are a common and significant cause of visual impairment globally. We aimed to evaluate uncorrected distance visual acuity (UDVA) as an outcome in treating astigmatic cataract patients to assist clinicians or ophthalmologists in their decision making process regarding available interventions. METHODS: Medline, Embase and Evidence Based Reviews were systematically reviewed to identify relevant studies reporting changes in UDVA, UIVA and UNVA after cataract surgery in presbyopic patients. Strict inclusion/exclusion criteria were used to exclude any non-relevant studies. Relevant outcomes (UDVA, UIVA and UNVA) were identified from the studies retrieved through the systematic review process. RESULTS: The systematic review identified 11 studies which reported UCVA. All 11 studies reported UDVA. Four brands of toric intraocular lenses (IOLs) were reported in these studies. All studies identified in the literature search reported improvements in UDVA following surgical implant of a toric IOL. The largest improvements in VA were reported using the Human Optics MicroSil toric IOL (0.74 LogMAR, UDVA) and the smallest improvements were also reported using the Human Optics MicroSil toric IOL (0.23 LogMAR, UDVA) in a different study. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this systematic review showed the aggregate of studies reporting a beneficial increase in UDVA with the use of toric IOLs in cataract patients with astigmatism."			2012				1179
Effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy for depression in patients receiving disability benefits: a systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis		"Ebrahim, S., Montoya, L., Truong, W., Hsu, S., Kamal El Din, M., Carrasco-Labra, A., Busse, J. W., Walter, S. D., Heels-Ansdell, D., Couban, R., Patelis-Siotis, I., Bellman, M., de Graaf, L. E., Dozois, D. J., Bieling, P. J. and Guyatt, G. H."				plos one	plos one	"OBJECTIVES: To systematically summarize the randomized trial evidence regarding the relative effectiveness of cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) in patients with depression in receipt of disability benefits in comparison to those not receiving disability benefits. DATA SOURCES: All relevant RCTs from a database of randomized controlled and comparative studies examining the effects of psychotherapy for adult depression (http://www.evidencebasedpsychotherapies.org), electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, PSYCINFO, AMED, CINAHL and CENTRAL) to June 2011, and bibliographies of all relevant articles. STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA, PARTICIPANTS AND INTERVENTION: Adult patients with major depression, randomly assigned to CBT versus minimal/no treatment or care-as-usual. STUDY APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS METHODS: Three teams of reviewers, independently and in duplicate, completed title and abstract screening, full text review and data extraction. We performed an individual patient data meta-analysis to summarize data. RESULTS: Of 92 eligible trials, 70 provided author contact information; of these 56 (80%) were successfully contacted to establish if they captured receipt of benefits as a baseline characteristic; 8 recorded benefit status, and 3 enrolled some patients in receipt of benefits, of which 2 provided individual patient data. Including both patients receiving and not receiving disability benefits, 2 trials (227 patients) suggested a possible reduction in depression with CBT, as measured by the Beck Depression Inventory, mean difference [MD] (95% confidence interval [CI])?=?-2.61 (-5.28, 0.07), p?=?0.06; minimally important difference of 5. The effect appeared larger, though not significantly, in those in receipt of benefits (34 patients) versus not receiving benefits (193 patients); MD (95% CI)?=?-4.46 (-12.21, 3.30), p?=?0.26. CONCLUSIONS: Our data does not support the hypothesis that CBT has smaller effects in depressed patients receiving disability benefits versus other patients. Given that the confidence interval is wide, a decreased effect is still possible, though if the difference exists, it is likely to be small."			2012				1944
Chronic Care Model Decision Support and Clinical Information Systems interventions for people living with HIV: a systematic review		"Pasricha, A., Deinstadt, R. T., Moher, D., Killoran, A., Rourke, S. B. and Kendall, C. E."				journal of general internal medicine	journal of general internal medicine	"BACKGROUND: The Chronic Care Model is an effective framework for improving chronic disease management. There is scarce literature describing this model for people living with HIV. Decision Support (DS) and Clinical Information Systems (CIS) are two components of this model that aim to improve care by changing health care provider behavior. OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to assess the effectiveness of DS and CIS interventions for individuals with HIV, through a systematic literature review. DESIGN: We performed systematic electronic searches from 1996 to February 2011 of the medical (E.g. Medline, EMBASE, CINAHL) and grey literature. Effectiveness was measured by the frequency of statistically significant outcome improvement. Data and key equity indicator extraction and synthesis was completed. PARTICIPANTS AND INTERVENTIONS: We included comparative studies of people living with HIV that examined the impact of DS or CIS interventions on outcomes. MAIN MEASURES: The following measures were assessed: outcome (immunological/virological, medical, psychosocial, economic measures) and health care process/performance measures. KEY RESULTS: Records were screened for relevance (n?=?10,169), full-text copies of relevant studies were obtained (n?=?123), and 16 studies were included in the review. Overall, 5/9 (55.6%) and 17/41 (41.5%) process measures and 5/12 (41.7%) and 3/9 (33.3%) outcome measures for DS and CIS interventions, respectively, were statistically significantly improved. DS-explicit mention of implementation of guidelines and CIS-reminders showed the most frequent improvement in outcomes. DS-only interventions were more effective than CIS-only interventions in improving both process and outcome measures. Clinical, statistical and methodological heterogeneity among studies precluded meta-analysis. Primary studies were methodologically weak and often included multifaceted interventions that made assessment of effectiveness challenging. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, DS and CIS interventions may modestly improve care for people living with HIV, having a greater impact on process measures compared to outcome measures. These interventions should be considered as part of strategies to improve HIV care through changing provider performance."			2013				3063
Laparoscopic versus open catheter placement in peritoneal dialysis patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis		"Xie, H., Zhang, W., Cheng, J. and He, Q."				bmc nephrology	bmc nephrology	"BACKGROUND: Peritoneal dialysis has been proven to be a safe and effective mode of renal replacement therapy for patients with end-stage renal disease. The usage of laparoscopic catheter placement technique was increased in recent years. But the advantages and disadvantages between the laparoscopic catheter placement technique and open laparotomy technique were still http://in controversy. The objective of this study is to access the operation-related data and complications of catheter placement for peritoneal dialysis (PD) patients, Then to determine the better method for catheter insertion. METHODS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis on published studies identified by the databases PubMed, EMBASE, Highwire, and the Cochrane Library. Analysis was performed using the statistical software Review Manager Version 5.0. RESULTS: We assessed the operation-related data and complications of four randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and ten observational studies. The available data showed that laparoscope prolonged the time for catheter insertion in PD patients, however, the two groups did not significantly differ in hospital stays, early and late complications, including infection, dialysate leaks, catheter migration, pericannular bleeding, blockage and hernia. CONCLUSIONS: The data showed that Laparoscopic catheter placement had no superiority to open surgery. However, this treatment still needs to be confirmed in a large, multi-center, well-designed RCT."			2012				1201
Increasing the use of skilled health personnel where traditional birth attendants were providers of childbirth care: a systematic review		"Vieira, C., Portela, A., Miller, T., Coast, E., Leone, T. and Marston, C."				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: Improved access to skilled health personnel for childbirth is a priority strategy to improve maternal health. This study investigates interventions to achieve this where traditional birth attendants were providers of childbirth care and asks what has been done and what has worked? METHODS AND FINDINGS: We systematically reviewed published and unpublished literature, searching 26 databases and contacting experts to find relevant studies. We included references from all time periods and locations. 132 items from 41 countries met our inclusion criteria and are included in an inventory; six were intervention evaluations of high or moderate quality which we further analysed. Four studies report on interventions to deploy midwives closer to communities: two studies in Indonesia reported an increase in use of skilled health personnel; another Indonesian study showed increased uptake of caesarean sections as midwives per population increased; one study in Bangladesh reported decreased risk of maternal death. Two studies report on interventions to address financial barriers: one in Bangladesh reported an increase in use of skilled health personnel where financial barriers for users were addressed and incentives were given to skilled care providers; another in Peru reported that use of emergency obstetric care increased by subsidies for preventive and maternity care, but not by improved quality of care. CONCLUSIONS: The interventions had positive outcomes for relevant maternal health indicators. However, three of the studies evaluate the village midwife programme in Indonesia, which limits the generalizability of conclusions. Most studies report on a main intervention, despite other activities, such as community mobilization or partnerships with traditional birth attendants. Many authors note that multiple factors including distance, transport, family preferences/support also need to be addressed. Case studies of interventions in the inventory illustrate how different countries attempted to address these complexities. Few high quality studies that measure effectiveness of interventions exist."			2012				1943
Effects of case management in community aged care on client and carer outcomes: a systematic review of randomized trials and comparative observational studies		"You, E. C., Dunt, D., Doyle, C. and Hsueh, A."				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	"BACKGROUND: Case management has been applied in community aged care to meet frail older people's holistic needs and promote cost-effectiveness. This systematic review aims to evaluate the effects of case management in community aged care on client and carer outcomes. METHODS: We searched Web of Science, Scopus, Medline, CINAHL (EBSCO) and PsycINFO (CSA) from inception to 2011 July. Inclusion criteria were: no restriction on date, English language, community-dwelling older people and/or carers, case management in community aged care, published in refereed journals, randomized control trials (RCTs) or comparative observational studies, examining client or carer outcomes. Quality of studies was assessed by using such indicators as quality control, randomization, comparability, follow-up rate, dropout, blinding assessors, and intention-to-treat analysis. Two reviewers independently screened potentially relevant studies, extracted information and assessed study quality. A narrative summary of findings were presented. RESULTS: Ten RCTs and five comparative observational studies were identified. One RCT was rated high quality. Client outcomes included mortality (7 studies), physical or cognitive functioning (6 studies), medical conditions (2 studies), behavioral problems (2 studies) , unmet service needs (3 studies), psychological health or well-being (7 studies) , and satisfaction with care (4 studies), while carer outcomes included stress or burden (6 studies), satisfaction with care (2 studies), psychological health or well-being (5 studies), and social consequences (such as social support and relationships with clients) (2 studies). Five of the seven studies reported that case management in community aged care interventions significantly improved psychological health or well-being in the intervention group, while all the three studies consistently reported fewer unmet service needs among the intervention participants. In contrast, available studies reported mixed results regarding client physical or cognitive functioning and carer stress or burden. There was also limited evidence indicating significant effects of the interventions on the other client and carer outcomes as described above. CONCLUSIONS: Available evidence showed that case management in community aged care can improve client psychological health or well-being and unmet service needs. Future studies should investigate what specific components of case management are crucial in improving clients and their carers' outcomes."			2012				1591
A safety review and meta-analyses of bevacizumab and ranibizumab: off-label versus goldstandard		"Schmucker, C., Ehlken, C., Agostini, H. T., Antes, G., Ruecker, G., Lelgemann, M. and Loke, Y. K."				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: We set out a systemic review to evaluate whether off-label bevacizumab is as safe as licensed ranibizumab, and whether bevacizumab can be justifiably offered to patients as a treatment for age-related macular degeneration with robust evidence of no differential risk. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Medline, Embase and the Cochrane Library were searched with no limitations of language and year of publication. We included RCTs with a minimum follow-up of one year which investigated bevacizumab or ranibizumab in direct comparison or against any other control group (indirect comparison). Direct comparison (3 trials, 1333 patients): The one year data show a significantly higher rate of ocular adverse effects (AE) with bevacizumab compared to ranibizumab (RR = 2.8; 95% CI 1.2-6.5). The proportion of patients with serious infections and gastrointestinal disorders was also higher with bevacizumab than with ranibizumab (RR = 1.3; 95% CI 1.0-1.7). Arterial thromboembolic events were equally distributed among the groups. Indirect comparison: Ranibizumab versus any control (5 trials, 4054 patients): The two year results of three landmark trials showed that while absolute rates of serious ocular AE were low (? 2.1%), relative harm was significantly raised (RR = 3.1; 95% CI 1.1-8.9). A significant increase in nonocular haemorrhage was also observed with ranibizumab (RR = 1.7; 95% CI 1.1-2.7). Bevacizumab versus any control (3 trials, 244 patients): We were unable to judge the safety profile of bevacizumab due to the poor quality of AE monitoring and reporting in the trials. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence from head-to-head trials raises concern about an increased risk of ocular and multiple systemic AE with bevacizumab. Therefore, clinicians and patients should continue to carefully weight up the benefits and harms when choosing between the two treatment options. We also emphasize the need for studies that are powered not just for efficacy, but for defined safety outcomes based on the signals detected in this systematic review."			2012				2302
Pre-pregnancy care for women with pre-gestational diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis		"Wahabi, H. A., Alzeidan, R. A. and Esmaeil, S. A."				bmc public health	bmc public health	"BACKGROUND: Pre-gestational diabetes mellitus is associated with increased risk for maternal and fetal adverse outcomes. This systematic review was carried out to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of pre-pregnancy care in improving the rate of congenital malformations and perinatal mortality for women with pre-gestational diabetes mellitus. METHODS: We searched the following databases, MEDLINE, EMBASE, WEB OF SCIENCE, Cochrane Library, including the CENTRAL register of controlled trials and CINHAL up to December 2011, without language restriction, for any pre-pregnancy care aiming at health promotion, glycemic control and screening and treatment of diabetes complications in women with type I or type II diabetes mellitus. Study design were trials (randomized and non-randomized), cohort and case-control studies. RESULTS: Of the 2452 title scanned 54 full papers were retrieved of those 21 studies were included in this review. Twelve cohort studies at low and medium risk of bias, with 3088 women, were included in the meta-analysis. Meta-analysis suggested that pre-pregnancy care is effective in reducing congenital malformation, Risk Ratio (RR) 0.25 (95% CI 0.16-0.37), number needed to treat (NNT) 19 (95% CI 14-24), and perinatal mortality RR 0.34 (95% CI 0.15-0.75), NNT = 46 (95% CI 28-115). Pre-pregnancy care lowers glycosylated hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) in the first trimester of pregnancy by an average of 1.92% (95% CI -2.05 to -1.79). However women who received pre-pregnancy care were at increased risk of hypoglycemia during the first trimester of pregnancy RR 1.51 (95% CI 1.15-1.99). CONCLUSION: Pre-pregnancy care for women with pre-gestational type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus is effective in improving rates of congenital malformations, perinatal mortality and in reducing maternal HbA1C in the first trimester of pregnancy. Pre-pregnancy care might cause maternal hypoglycemia in the first trimester of pregnancy."			2012				1242
Benchmark for time in therapeutic range in venous thromboembolism: a systematic review and meta-analysis		"Erkens, P. M., ten Cate, H., Büller, H. R. and Prins, M. H."				plos one	plos one	"INTRODUCTION: The percentage of time within the target INR range 2.0 to 3.0 (TTR) in patients treated with vitamin K antagonists varies considerably among efficacy-studies of novel anticoagulants. In order to properly asses the quality of anticoagulant control in upcoming cost-effectiveness studies and real life registries this systematic review reports a benchmark of TTR for different treatment durations in patients with venous thromboembolism and discusses ways to calculate TTR. METHODS: Medline and Embase were searched for studies published between January 1990 and May 2012. Randomized controlled trials and cohort studies reporting the TTR in patients with objectively confirmed venous thromboembolism treated with vitamin K antagonists (VKA) were eligible. Duplicate reports, studies only reporting INR during initial treatment or with VKA treatment less than 3 months were excluded. Three authors assessed trials for inclusion and extracted data independently. Discrepancies were resolved by discussion between the reviewers. A meta-analysis was performed by calculating a weighted mean, based on the number of participants in each included study, for each time-period in which the TTR was measured since the confirmation of the diagnosis of VTE. RESULTS: Forty studies were included (26064 patients). The weighted means of TTR were 54.0% in the first month since the start of treatment, 55.6% in months 1 to 3, 60.0% in months 2 to 3, 60.0% in the months 1 to 6+ and 75.2% in months 4 to 12+. Five studies reported TTR in classes. The INR in these studies was ? 67% of time in therapeutic range in 72.0% of the patients. CONCLUSION: Reported quality of VKA treatment is highly dependent on the time-period since the start of treatment, with TTR ranging from approximately 56% in studies including the 1(st) month to 75% in studies excluding the first 3 months."			2012				1367
The effectiveness of emergency obstetric referral interventions in developing country settings: a systematic review		"Hussein, J., Kanguru, L., Astin, M. and Munjanja, S."				plos medicine	plos medicine	"BACKGROUND: Pregnancy complications can be unpredictable and many women in developing countries cannot access health facilities where life-saving care is available. This study assesses the effects of referral interventions that enable pregnant women to reach health facilities during an emergency, after the decision to seek care is made. METHODS AND FINDINGS: Selected bibliographic databases were searched with no date or language restrictions. Randomised controlled trials and quasi experimental study designs with a comparison group were included. Outcomes of interest included maternal and neonatal mortality and other intermediate measures such as service utilisation. Two reviewers independently selected, appraised, and extracted articles using predefined fields. Forest plots, tables, and qualitative summaries of study quality, size, and direction of effect were used for analysis. Nineteen studies were included. In South Asian settings, four studies of organisational interventions in communities that generated funds for transport reduced neonatal deaths, with the largest effect seen in India (odds ratio 0·48 95% CI 0·34-0·68). Three quasi experimental studies from sub-Saharan Africa reported reductions in stillbirths with maternity waiting home interventions, with one statistically significant result (OR 0.56 95% CI 0.32-0.96). Effects of interventions on maternal mortality were unclear. Referral interventions usually improved utilisation of health services but the opposite effect was also documented. The effects of multiple interventions in the studies could not be disentangled. Explanatory mechanisms through which the interventions worked could not be ascertained. CONCLUSIONS: Community mobilisation interventions may reduce neonatal mortality but the contribution of referral components cannot be ascertained. The reduction in stillbirth rates resulting from maternity waiting homes needs further study. Referral interventions can have unexpected adverse effects. To inform the implementation of effective referral interventions, improved monitoring and evaluation practices are necessary, along with studies that develop better understanding of how interventions work."			2012				1838
Mindfulness-based stress reduction for low back pain. A systematic review		"Cramer, H., Haller, H., Lauche, R. and Dobos, G."				bmc complementary and alternative medicine	bmc complementary and alternative medicine	"BACKGROUND: Mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) is frequently used for pain conditions. While systematic reviews on MBSR for chronic pain have been conducted, there are no reviews for specific pain conditions. Therefore a systematic review of the effectiveness of MBSR in low back pain was performed. METHODS: MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library, EMBASE, CAMBASE, and PsycInfo were screened through November 2011. The search strategy combined keywords for MBSR with keywords for low back pain. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing MBSR to control conditions in patients with low back pain were included. Two authors independently assessed risk of bias using the Cochrane risk of bias tool. Clinical importance of group differences was assessed for the main outcome measures pain intensity and back-specific disability. RESULTS: Three RCTs with a total of 117 chronic low back pain patients were included. One RCT on failed back surgery syndrome reported significant and clinically important short-term improvements in pain intensity and disability for MBSR compared to no treatment. Two RCTs on older adults (age???65 years) with chronic specific or non-specific low back pain reported no short-term or long-term improvements in pain or disability for MBSR compared to no treatment or health education. Two RCTs reported larger short-term improvements of pain acceptance for MBSR compared to no treatment. CONCLUSION: This review found inconclusive evidence of effectiveness of MBSR in improving pain intensity or disability in chronic low back pain patients. However, there is limited evidence that MBSR can improve pain acceptance. Further RCTs with larger sample sizes, adequate control interventions, and longer follow-ups are needed before firm conclusions can be drawn."			2012				979
Effects of intensive blood pressure lowering on cardiovascular and renal outcomes: a systematic review and meta-analysis		"Lv, J., Neal, B., Ehteshami, P., Ninomiya, T., Woodward, M., Rodgers, A., Wang, H., Macmahon, S., Turnbull, F., Hillis, G., Chalmers, J. and Perkovic, V."				plos medicine	plos medicine	"BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend intensive blood pressure (BP) lowering in patients at high risk. While placebo-controlled trials have demonstrated 22% reductions in coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke associated with a 10-mmHg difference in systolic BP, it is unclear if more intensive BP lowering strategies are associated with greater reductions in risk of CHD and stroke. We did a systematic review to assess the effects of intensive BP lowering on vascular, eye, and renal outcomes. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We systematically searched Medline, Embase, and the Cochrane Library for trials published between 1950 and July 2011. We included trials that randomly assigned individuals to different target BP levels. We identified 15 trials including a total of 37,348 participants. On average there was a 7.5/4.5-mmHg BP difference. Intensive BP lowering achieved relative risk (RR) reductions of 11% for major cardiovascular events (95% CI 1%-21%), 13% for myocardial infarction (0%-25%), 24% for stroke (8%-37%), and 11% for end stage kidney disease (3%-18%). Intensive BP lowering regimens also produced a 10% reduction in the risk of albuminuria (4%-16%), and a trend towards benefit for retinopathy (19%, 0%-34%, p = 0.051) in patients with diabetes. There was no clear effect on cardiovascular or noncardiovascular death. Intensive BP lowering was well tolerated; with serious adverse events uncommon and not significantly increased, except for hypotension (RR 4.16, 95% CI 2.25 to 7.70), which occurred infrequently (0.4% per 100 person-years). CONCLUSIONS: Intensive BP lowering regimens provided greater vascular protection than standard regimens that was proportional to the achieved difference in systolic BP, but did not have any clear impact on the risk of death or serious adverse events. Further trials are required to more clearly define the risks and benefits of BP targets below those currently recommended, given the benefits suggested by the currently available data."			2012				1366
Mortality after fluid bolus in children with shock due to sepsis or severe infection: a systematic review and meta-analysis		"Ford, N., Hargreaves, S. and Shanks, L."				plos one	plos one	"INTRODUCTION: Sepsis is one of the leading causes of childhood mortality, yet controversy surrounds the current treatment approach. We conducted a systematic review to assess the evidence base for fluid resuscitation in the treatment of children with shock due to sepsis or severe infection. METHODS: We searched 3 databases for randomized trials, quasi-randomized trials, and controlled before-after studies assessing children with septic shock in which at least one group was treated with bolus fluids. The primary outcome was mortality at 48 hours. Assessment of methodological quality followed the GRADE criteria. Relative risks (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated and data pooled using fixed-effects method. RESULTS: 13 studies met our inclusion criteria. No bolus has significantly better mortality outcomes at 48 hours for children with general septic shock (RR 0.69; 95%CI 0.54-0.89), and children with malaria (RR 0.64; 95%CI 0.45-0.91) when compared to giving any bolus. This result is largely driven by a single, high quality trial (the FEAST trial). There is no evidence investigating bolus vs no bolus in children with Dengue fever or severe malnutrition. Colloid and crystalloid boluses were found to have similar effects on mortality across all sub-groups (general septic shock, malaria, Dengue fever, and severe malnutrition). CONCLUSIONS: The majority of all randomized evidence to date comes from the FEAST trial, which found that fluid boluses were harmful compared to no bolus. Simple algorithms are needed to support health-care providers in the triage of patients to determine who could potentially be harmed by the provision of bolus fluids, and who will benefit."			2012				1519
A systematic review of comparative efficacy of treatments and controls for depression		"Khan, A., Faucett, J., Lichtenberg, P., Kirsch, I. and Brown, W. A."				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: Although previous meta-analyses have examined effects of antidepressants, psychotherapy, and alternative therapies for depression, the efficacy of these treatments alone and in combination has not been systematically compared. We hypothesized that the differences between approved depression treatments and controls would be small. METHODS AND FINDINGS: The authors first reviewed data from Food and Drug Administration Summary Basis of Approval reports of 62 pivotal antidepressant trials consisting of data from 13,802 depressed patients. This was followed by a systematic review of data from 115 published trials evaluating efficacy of psychotherapies and alternative therapies for depression. The published depression trials consisted of 10,310 depressed patients. We assessed the percentage symptom reduction experienced by the patients based on treatment assignment. Overall, antidepressants led to greater symptom reduction compared to placebo among both unpublished FDA data and published trials (F = 38.5, df = 239, p<0.001). In the published trials we noted that the magnitude of symptom reduction with active depression treatments compared to controls was significantly larger when raters evaluating treatment effects were un-blinded compared to the trials with blinded raters (F = 2.17, df = 313, p<0.05). In the blinded trials, the combination of antidepressants and psychotherapy provided a slight advantage over antidepressants (p = 0.027) and psychotherapy (p = 0.022) alone. The magnitude of symptom reduction was greater with psychotherapies compared to placebo (p = 0.019), treatment-as-usual (p = 0.012) and waiting-list (p<0.001). Differences were not seen with psychotherapy compared to antidepressants, alternative therapies or active intervention controls. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the combination of psychotherapy and antidepressants for depression may provide a slight advantage whereas antidepressants alone and psychotherapy alone are not significantly different from alternative therapies or active intervention controls. These data suggest that type of treatment offered is less important than getting depressed patients involved in an active therapeutic program. Future research should consider whether certain patient profiles might justify a specific treatment modality."			2012				1379
Modifying patterns of movement in people with low back pain -does it help? A systematic review		"Laird, R. A., Kent, P. and Keating, J. L."				bmc musculoskeletal disorders	bmc musculoskeletal disorders	"BACKGROUND: Physiotherapy for people with low back pain frequently includes assessment and modification of lumbo-pelvic movement. Interventions commonly aim to restore normal movement and thereby reduce pain and improve activity limitation. The objective of this systematic review was to investigate: (i) the effect of movement-based interventions on movement patterns (muscle activation, lumbo-pelvic kinematics or postural patterns) of people with low back pain (LBP), and (ii) the relationship between changes in movement patterns and subsequent changes in pain and activity limitation. METHODS: MEDLINE, Cochrane Central, EMBASE, AMI, CINAHL, Scopus, AMED, ISI Web of Science were searched from inception until January 2012. Randomised controlled trials or controlled clinical trials of people with LBP were eligible for inclusion. The intervention must have been designed to influence (i) muscle activity patterns, (ii) lumbo-pelvic kinematic patterns or (iii) postural patterns, and included measurement of such deficits before and after treatment, to allow determination of the success of the intervention on the lumbo-pelvic movement. Twelve trials (25% of retrieved studies) met the inclusion criteria. Two reviewers independently identified, assessed and extracted data. The PEDro scale was used to assess method quality. Intervention effects were described using standardised differences between group means and 95% confidence intervals. RESULTS: The included trials showed inconsistent, mostly small to moderate intervention effects on targeted movement patterns. There was considerable heterogeneity in trial design, intervention type and outcome measures. A relationship between changes to movement patterns and improvements in pain or activity limitation was observed in one of six studies on muscle activation patterns, one of four studies that examined the flexion relaxation response pattern and in two of three studies that assessed lumbo-pelvic kinematics or postural characteristics. CONCLUSIONS: Movement-based interventions were infrequently effective for changing observable movement patterns. A relationship between changes in movement patterns and improvement in pain or activity limitation was also infrequently observed. No independent studies confirm any observed relationships. Challenges for future research include defining best methods for measuring (i) movement aberrations, (ii) improvements in movements, and (iii) the relationship between changes in how people move and associated changes in other health indicators such as activity limitation."			2012				1409
Bleeding risk during treatment of acute thrombotic events with subcutaneous LMWH compared to intravenous unfractionated heparin; a systematic review		"Costantino, G., Ceriani, E., Rusconi, A. M., Podda, G. M., Montano, N., Duca, P., Cattaneo, M. and Casazza, G."				plos one	plos one	"BACKGROUND: Low Molecular Weight Heparins (LMWH) are at least as effective antithrombotic drugs as Unfractionated Heparin (UFH). However, it is still unclear whether the safety profiles of LMWH and UFH differ. We performed a systematic review to compare the bleeding risk of fixed dose subcutaneous LMWH and adjusted dose UFH for treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) or acute coronary syndromes (ACS). Major bleeding was the primary end point. METHODS: Electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library) were searched up to May 2010 with no language restrictions. Randomized controlled trials in which subcutaneous LMWH were compared to intravenous UFH for the treatment of acute thrombotic events were selected. Two reviewers independently screened studies and extracted data on study design, study quality, incidence of major bleeding, patients' characteristics, type, dose and number of daily administrations of LMWH, co-treatments, study end points and efficacy outcome. Pooled odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using the random effects model. RESULTS: Twenty-seven studies were included. A total of 14,002 patients received UFH and 14,635 patients LMWH. Overall, no difference in major bleeding was observed between LMWH patients and UFH (OR = 0.79, 95% CI 0.60-1.04). In patients with VTE LMWH appeared safer than UFH, (OR = 0.68, 95% CI 0.47-1.00). CONCLUSION: The results of our systematic review suggest that the use of LMWH in the treatment of VTE might be associated with a reduction in major bleeding compared with UFH. The choice of which heparin to use to minimize bleeding risk must be based on the single patient, taking into account the bleeding profile of different heparins in different settings."			2012				1430
Beta-blocker use and COPD mortality: a systematic review and meta-analysis		"Etminan, M., Jafari, S., Carleton, B. and FitzGerald, J. M."				bmc pulmonary medicine	bmc pulmonary medicine	"BACKGROUND: Despite the benefits of beta-blockers in patients with established or sub-clinical coronary artery disease, their use in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has been controversial. Currently, no systematic review has examined the impact of beta-blockers on mortality in COPD. METHODS: We systematically searched electronic bibliographic databases including MEDLINE, EMBASE and Cochrane Library for clinical studies that examine the association between beta-blocker use and all cause mortality in patients with COPD. Risk ratios across studies were pooled using random effects models to estimate a pooled relative risk across studies. Publication bias was assessed using a funnel plot. RESULTS: Our search identified nine retrospective cohort studies that met the study inclusion criteria. The pooled relative risk of COPD related mortality secondary to beta-blocker use was 0.69 (95% CI: 0.62-0.78; I2=82%). CONCLUSION: The results of this review are consistent with a protective effect of beta-blockers with respect to all cause mortality. Due to the observational nature of the included studies, the possibility of confounding that may have affected these results cannot be excluded. The hypothesis that beta blocker therapy might be of benefit in COPD needs to be evaluated in randomised controlled trials."			2012				986
Impact of community-based support services on antiretroviral treatment programme delivery and outcomes in resource-limited countries: a synthetic review		"Wouters, E., Van Damme, W., van Rensburg, D., Masquillier, C. and Meulemans, H."				bmc health services research	bmc health services research	"BACKGROUND: Task-shifting to lay community health providers is increasingly suggested as a potential strategy to overcome the barriers to sustainable antiretroviral treatment (ART) scale-up in high-HIV-prevalence, resource-limited settings. The dearth of systematic scientific evidence on the contributory role and function of these forms of community mobilisation has rendered a formal evaluation of the published results of existing community support programmes a research priority. METHODS: We reviewed the relevant published work for the period from November 2003 to December 2011 in accordance with the guidelines for a synthetic review. ISI Web of Knowledge, Science Direct, BioMed Central, OVID Medline, PubMed, Social Services Abstracts, and Sociological Abstracts and a number of relevant websites were searched. RESULTS: The reviewed literature reported an unambiguous positive impact of community support on a wide range of aspects, including access, coverage, adherence, virological and immunological outcomes, patient retention and survival. Looking at the mechanisms through which community support can impact ART programmes, the review indicates that community support initiatives are a promising strategy to address five often cited challenges to ART scale-up, namely (1) the lack of integration of ART services into the general health system; (2) the growing need for comprehensive care, (3) patient empowerment, (4) and defaulter tracing; and (5) the crippling shortage in human resources for health. The literature indicates that by linking HIV/AIDS-care to other primary health care programmes, by providing psychosocial care in addition to the technical-medical care from nurses and doctors, by empowering patients towards self-management and by tracing defaulters, well-organised community support initiatives are a vital part of any sustainable public-sector ART programme. CONCLUSIONS: The review demonstrates that community support initiatives are a potentially effective strategy to address the growing shortage of health workers, and to broaden care to accommodate the needs associated with chronic HIV/AIDS. The existing evidence suggests that community support programmes, although not necessarily cheap or easy, remain a good investment to improve coverage of communities with much needed health services, such as ART. For this reason, health policy makers, managers, and providers must acknowledge and strengthen the role of community support in the fight against HIV/AIDS."			2012				2418
"Synbiotics, probiotics or prebiotics in infant formula for full term infants: a systematic review"		"Mugambi, M. N., Musekiwa, A., Lombard, M., Young, T. and Blaauw, R."				nutrition journal	nutrition journal	"BACKGROUND: Synbiotics, probiotics or prebiotics are being added to infant formula to promote growth and development in infants. Previous reviews (2007 to 2011) on term infants given probiotics or prebiotics focused on prevention of allergic disease and food hypersensitivity. This review focused on growth and clinical outcomes in term infants fed only infant formula containing synbiotics, probiotics or prebiotics. METHODS: Cochrane methodology was followed using randomized controlled trials (RCTs) which compared term infant formula containing probiotics, prebiotics or synbiotics to conventional infant formula with / without placebo among healthy full term infants. The mean difference (MD) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI) were reported for continuous outcomes, risk ratio (RR) and corresponding 95% CI for dichotomous outcomes. Where appropriate, meta-analysis was performed; heterogeneity was explored using subgroup and sensitivity analyses. If studies were too diverse a narrative synthesis was provided. RESULTS: Three synbiotic studies (N = 475), 10 probiotics studies (N = 933) and 12 prebiotics studies (N = 1563) were included. Synbiotics failed to significantly increase growth in boys and girls. Use of synbiotics increased stool frequency, had no impact on stool consistency, colic, spitting up / regurgitation, crying, restlessness or vomiting. Probiotics in formula also failed to have any significant effect on growth, stool frequency or consistency. Probiotics did not lower the incidence of diarrhoea, colic, spitting up / regurgitation, crying, restlessness or vomiting. Prebiotics in formula did increase weight gain but had no impact on length or head circumference gain. Prebiotics increased stool frequency but had no impact on stool consistency, the incidence of colic, spitting up / regurgitation, crying, restlessness or vomiting. There was no impact of prebiotics on the volume of formula tolerated, infections and gastrointestinal microflora. The quality of evidence was compromised by imprecision, inconsistency of results, use of different study preparations and publication bias. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is not enough evidence to state that supplementation of term infant formula with synbiotics, probiotics or prebiotics does result in improved growth or clinical outcomes in term infants. There is no data available to establish if synbiotics are superior to probiotics or prebiotics."			2012				1824
Laser therapy may be better than topical desensitizing agents for treating dentin hypersensitivity		"Blatz, M. B."				the journal of evidence-based dental practice	the journal of evidence-based dental practice	"SELECTION CRITERIA: Two independent reviewers screened the databases MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of ControlledTrials, the National Research Register, and the Cochrane Oral HealthGroup'sTrials Register for articles written in English between 1977 and January1, 2010. The inclusion criteria comprised randomized controlled trials (RCTs) involving the application of laser desensitizing procedures and topical desensitizing agents in patients with at least 2 or more hypersensitive teeth confirmed by evaporative stimulus or tactile hypersensitivity assessment. Trial groups needed to receive laser therapy, whereas the control groups received topical desensitizing agents, such as fluoride varnish, dentin bonding agents, or others. Outcomes had to be measured by clinical performance (decrease of hypersensitivity) and/or patients' self-assessment. Studies with loss in follow-up greater than 20% or with confusing data/probable errors were excluded. A total of 176 potential relevant titles, abstracts, and articles were found, 28 of which were screened for further evaluation. Out of these, 8 trials met all inclusion criteria, involving a total of 234 patients. The quality of these trials was assessed according to the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. Accordingly, only 1 study was classified as A level, 5 as B level, and 2 as C level. A meta-analysis was not performed because of the heterogeneity of the studies. KEY STUDY FACTOR: Studies that assess the application of laser desensitizing procedures in reducing dentinal hypersensitivity. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The primary outcome was reduction of tooth sensitivity following treatment with either a laser or a topical desensitizing agent. Evaluations were made at varying intervals up to 6 months after treatment. MAIN RESULTS: Eight trials reporting on a total of 234 patients were included based on the specified criteria and 20 articles were excluded. Sample size in each of the included studies varied from 20 to 70 patients with differing follow-up intervals of up to 6 months. Most studies used Visual Analog Scale scores or other subjective tools to assess sensitivity. All 8 studies compared one kind of laser versus one kind of topical desensitizingagent. However, types of lasers as well as types of desensitizing agents differed among the reviewed studies. Half of the studies compared gallium-aluminum-arsenide (GaAlAs) lasers with various topical desensitizing agents; however, findings were conflicting. Two moderate-quality trials indicated that GaAlAs laser and the control desensitizing agents preformed similarly. Another moderate-quality trial demonstrated that the application of a bonding agent was significantly better than a GaAlAs laser in the reduction of hypersensitivity. The only reviewed study that was classified as an A-level study revealed a significantly greater immediate and long-term desensitizing effect than the control. The remaining studies involved Nd:YAG, Er:YAG, and CO(2) lasers, all of them reporting a slightly greater decrease in sensitivity as compared with topical desensitizing agents. Five of 8s tudies reported on the safety of laser application and did not find any detrimental pulpal effects, allergic reactions, or clinically detectable complications during follow-up. CONCLUSIONS: The authors concluded that the results obtained from the 8 studies included in this systematic review were conflicting but indicated a slight clinical advantage of laser therapy over topical medicaments in the treatment of dentin hypersensitivity. It was further concluded that application of lasers under controlled parameters for this indication may not lead to adverse effects."			2012				2541
Comparative effectiveness and safety of biological treatment options after tumour necrosis factor ? inhibitor failure in rheumatoid arthritis: systematic review and indirect pairwise meta-analysis		"Schoels, M., Aletaha, D., Smolen, J. S. and Wong, J. B."				annals of the rheumatic diseases	annals of the rheumatic diseases	"BACKGROUND: Optimal treatment for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) after inadequate response (IR) to tumour necrosis factor ? inhibitors (TNFi) remains uncertain. OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy and safety of biological agents after TNFi-IR. METHODS: A systematic literature search was carried out using Medline and Cochrane databases, as well as http://www.clinicaltrials.gov, and bibliographies of the retrieved literature were searched by hand. Randomised, placebo-controlled trials that enrolled patients with RA with TNFi-IR were included and American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response as primary efficacy outcome and adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and serious infections (SIs) as safety measures were extracted. An indirect meta-analysis with pairwise comparisons of efficacy and safety data was then carried out using ORs or risk differences (RDs) in a random effects model. RESULTS: In four randomised controlled trials with 24 weeks' follow-up, direct comparisons of abatacept, golimumab, rituximab and tocilizumab versus placebo showed statistically significant mean ORs of 3.3-8.9 for ACR20, 5.5-10.2 for ACR50 and 4.1-13.5 for ACR70. Risks of AEs, SAEs and SIs versus placebo were non-significant. Indirect pairwise comparisons of the four biological agents showed no significant differences in ACR50 and ACR70. Golimumab had a significantly lower OR (0.56-0.59) for ACR20 but significantly fewer AEs (RD 0.13-0.18). Efficacy after one versus multiple TNFi failures did not differ significantly between the different biological agents. CONCLUSION: In patients refractory to one or more TNFi, new biological agents provide significant improvement with good safety. Lacking head-to-head trials, indirect meta-analysis enables a comparison of effectiveness and safety of biological agents with each other and shows that all biological agents have similar effects."			2012				2047
Systematic review of the literature on vitamin A and memory		"Fragoso, Yara Dadalti, Campos, Niklas Söderberg, Tenrreiro, Breno Faria and Guillen, Fernanda Jussio"				dementia & neuropsychologia	dementia & neuropsychologia	"BACKGROUND: Over the last 30 years, a variety of studies reporting the effects of vitamin A on memory have been published. OBJECTIVE: To perform a rigorous systematic review of the literature on vitamin A and memory in order to organize evidence-based data on the subject. METHODS: Four authors carried out the systematic review in accordance with strict guidelines. The terms 'vitamin A' OR 'retinol' OR 'retinoic acid' AND 'memory' OR 'cognition' OR 'Alzheimer' were searched in virtually all medical research databases. RESULTS: From 236 studies containing the key words, 44 were selected for this review, numbering 10 reviews and 34 original articles. Most studies used animal models for studying vitamin A and cognition. Birds, mice and rats were more frequently employed whereas human studies accounted for only two reports on brain tissue from autopsies and one on the role of isotretinoin in cognition among individuals taking this medication to treat acne. CONCLUSION: Vitamin A may be an important and viable complement in the treatment and prevention of Alzheimer’s disease. Clinical trials are imperative and, at present, there is no evidence-based data to recommend vitamin A supplementation for the prevention or treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. (PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2016 APA, all rights reserved)"			2012				949
[Art therapy in psychosocial rehabilitation of patients with mental disorders]		"Apotsos, P."				psychiatrik? = psychiatriki	psychiatrik? = psychiatriki	"Despite the use of art therapy in various psychiatric structures and articles supporting its application, in recent years very few data grounded on primary research have been published. Given the complexity of psychiatric disorders the number of people who suffer from them, and the fact that the primary treatment in psychiatric disorders remains pharmacotherapy, questions about the effectiveness of art therapy (as a complimentary treatment) remain open. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of art therapy in psychosocial rehabilitation of people with psychiatric disorders. A search of the literature and electronic databases using indexing words was conducted. The criteria for inclusion of articles were: a. studies had to be ""outcome-intervention"" studies, b. studies should concern only intervention in adults, and c. studies had to include patients with diagnoses according to the DSM of the American Psychiatric Association. Finally, only five articles were included in this systematic review. There is evidence for the effectiveness of art therapy in areas related to the psychosocial rehabilitation of persons suffering from psychiatric disorders, usually in combination with pharmacotherapy. The findings of the surveys reviewed are encouraging and justify the conduct of additional primary research."			2012				2367
Is exercise training beneficial for heart failure patients taking ?-adrenergic blockers? A systematic review and meta-analysis		"Ismail, H., McFarlane, J. and Smart, N. A."				"congestive heart failure (greenwich, conn.)"	"congestive heart failure (greenwich, conn.)"	"The authors sought to conduct a systematic review comparing the effects of exercise training in heart failure patients taking ?-blockers vs those not. A systematic search of exercise training trials in chronic heart failure patients that compared groups who took ?-blocker medication or compared selective and nonselective ?-blockers during exercise training was conducted. Eight prospective studies met the criteria for the quantitative synthesis, which included data from 236 participants. The increment in peak oxygen consumption (VO(2)) was greater in exercising vs control participants, with a mean difference (MD) of 1.27 mL/kg/min (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.85-1.70; P<.00001). In exercising patients, the increment in peak VO(2) was greater in the group taking ?-blocker vs those taking placebo (MD, 1.66 mL/kg/min; 95% CI, 0.36-2.97; P=.01). In exercising patients, there was no difference in the increment of peak VO(2) between nonselective ?-blocker and selective ?-blockers groups (MD, -0.09 mL/kg/min; 95% CI, -1.54-1.36; P=.09). Minnesota Quality of Life Score was significantly better in the exercise group vs sedentary control group (both groups taking ?-blockers) (MD, -11.3; 95% CI, -15.9 to -6.8; P<.00001). Our analysis demonstrated that ?-adrenergic blocker therapy did not reduce exercise capacity or exercise training adaptations and quality of life in heart failure patients."			2013				2784
Which procedure is better for lumbar interbody fusion: anterior lumbar interbody fusion or transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion?		"Jiang, S. D., Chen, J. W. and Jiang, L. S."				archives of orthopaedic and trauma surgery	archives of orthopaedic and trauma surgery	"INTRODUCTION: Both anterior lumbar interbody fusion (ALIF) and transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (TLIF) surgeries are performed to obtain a solid fusion to treat lumbar spondylosis. This systematic review investigated whether surgical complications, nonfusion rate, radiographic outcome, and clinical outcome of ALIF were significantly different from those of TLIF. METHOD: A computerized search of the electronic databases MEDLINE was conducted. Only therapeutic studies with a prospective or retrospective comparative design were considered for inclusion in the present investigation. Two reviewers independently extracted relevant data from each included study. Statistical comparisons were made when appropriate. RESULTS: Nine studies were determined to be appropriate for the systematic review, and all studies were retrospective comparative studies. Blood loss and operative time in ALIF was greater than in TLIF. There was no significant difference in the complication rate between ALIF and TLIF. The restoration of disc height, segmental lordosis, and whole lumbar lordosis in ALIF was superior to TLIF. However, clinical outcomes in ALIF were similar with TLIF, and there was no significant difference in nonfusion rate between the two techniques. Costs of ALIF were greater than those of TLIF. CONCLUSION: Clinical outcomes and nonfusion rate in ALIF were similar to TLIF. However, the restoration of disc height, segmental lordosis, and whole lumbar lordosis in ALIF were superior to those in TLIF, while blood loss, operative time, and costs in ALIF were greater than in TLIF."			2012				2126
Gait disorder rehabilitation using vision and non-vision based sensors: a systematic review		"Ali, A., Sundaraj, K., Ahmad, B., Ahamed, N. and Islam, A."				bosnian journal of basic medical sciences / udruženje basi?nih mediciniskih znanosti = association of basic medical sciences	bosnian journal of basic medical sciences / udruženje basi?nih mediciniskih znanosti = association of basic medical sciences	"Even though the amount of rehabilitation guidelines has never been greater, uncertainty continues to arise regarding the efficiency and effectiveness of the rehabilitation of gait disorders. This question has been hindered by the lack of information on accurate measurements of gait disorders. Thus, this article reviews the rehabilitation systems for gait disorder using vision and non-vision sensor technologies, as well as the combination of these. All papers published in the English language between 1990 and June, 2012 that had the phrases ""gait disorder"", ""rehabilitation"", ""vision sensor"", or ""non vision sensor"" in the title, abstract, or keywords were identified from the SpringerLink, ELSEVIER, PubMed, and IEEE databases. Some synonyms of these phrases and the logical words ""and"", ""or"", and ""not"" were also used in the article searching procedure. Out of the 91 published articles found, this review identified 84 articles that described the rehabilitation of gait disorders using different types of sensor technologies. This literature set presented strong evidence for the development of rehabilitation systems using a markerless vision-based sensor technology. We therefore believe that the information contained in this review paper will assist the progress of the development of rehabilitation systems for human gait disorders."			2012				1783
Bed occupancy rates and hospital-acquired infections--should beds be kept empty?		"Kaier, K., Mutters, N. T. and Frank, U."				clinical microbiology and infection : the official publication of the european society of clinical microbiology and infectious diseases	clinical microbiology and infection : the official publication of the european society of clinical microbiology and infectious diseases	"There is growing evidence that bed occupancy (BO) rates, overcrowding and understaffing influence the spread of hospital-acquired infections (HAIs). In this article, a systematic review of the literature is presented, summarizing the evidence on the adverse effects of high BO rates and overcrowding in hospitals on the incidence of HAIs. A Pubmed database search identified 179 references, of which 44 were considered to be potentially relevant for full-text review. The majority (62.9%) focused on methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus-associated infection or colonization. Only 12 studies were found that provided a statistical analysis of the impact of BO on HAI rates. The median BO rate of the analysed studies was 81.2%. The majority of studies (75%) indicated that BO rates and understaffing directly influence the incidence of HAIs. Only three studies showed no significant association between BO rates and the incidence of HAIs. Interestingly, only one of the included studies detected a seasonal trend in the BO rate. The present review shows an association between BO rates and the spread of HAIs in various settings. Because the evidence on this topic is limited, we conclude that further research is needed in order to analyse the rationale of a threshold BO rate, because keeping beds empty is comparatively costly."			2012				2141
Association between omega-3 fatty acid supplementation and risk of major cardiovascular disease events: a systematic review and meta-analysis		"Rizos, E. C., Ntzani, E. E., Bika, E., Kostapanos, M. S. and Elisaf, M. S."				jama : the journal of the american medical association	jama : the journal of the american medical association	"CONTEXT: Considerable controversy exists regarding the association of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and major cardiovascular end points. OBJECTIVE: To assess the role of omega-3 supplementation on major cardiovascular outcomes. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials through August 2012. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized clinical trials evaluating the effect of omega-3 on all-cause mortality, cardiac death, sudden death, myocardial infarction, and stroke. DATA EXTRACTION: Descriptive and quantitative information was extracted; absolute and relative risk (RR) estimates were synthesized under a random-effects model. Heterogeneity was assessed using the Q statistic and I2. Subgroup analyses were performed for the presence of blinding, the prevention settings, and patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators, and meta-regression analyses were performed for the omega-3 dose. A statistical significance threshold of .0063 was assumed after adjustment for multiple comparisons. DATA SYNTHESIS: Of the 3635 citations retrieved, 20 studies of 68,680 patients were included, reporting 7044 deaths, 3993 cardiac deaths, 1150 sudden deaths, 1837 myocardial infarctions, and 1490 strokes. No statistically significant association was observed with all-cause mortality (RR, 0.96; 95% CI, 0.91 to 1.02; risk reduction [RD] -0.004, 95% CI, -0.01 to 0.02), cardiac death (RR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.85 to 0.98; RD, -0.01; 95% CI, -0.02 to 0.00), sudden death (RR, 0.87; 95% CI, 0.75 to 1.01; RD, -0.003; 95% CI, -0.012 to 0.006), myocardial infarction (RR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.76 to 1.04; RD, -0.002; 95% CI, -0.007 to 0.002), and stroke (RR, 1.05; 95% CI, 0.93 to 1.18; RD, 0.001; 95% CI, -0.002 to 0.004) when all supplement studies were considered. CONCLUSION: Overall, omega-3 PUFA supplementation was not associated with a lower risk of all-cause mortality, cardiac death, sudden death, myocardial infarction, or stroke based on relative and absolute measures of association."			2012				2008
Palliative excisional surgery for primary colorectal cancer in patients with incurable metastatic disease. Is there a survival benefit? A systematic review		"Anwar, S., Peter, M. B., Dent, J. and Scott, N. A."				colorectal disease : the official journal of the association of coloproctology of great britain and ireland	colorectal disease : the official journal of the association of coloproctology of great britain and ireland	"AIM: Patients with stage IV colorectal cancer with unresectable metastases can either receive chemotherapy or palliative resection of the primary lesion. In the absence of any randomized data the choice of initial treatment in stage IV colorectal cancer is not based on firm evidence. METHOD: A search of MEDLINE, Pubmed, Embase and the Cochrane Library database was performed from 1980 to 2010 for studies comparing palliative resection in stage IV colorectal cancer with other treatment modalities. Audits and observational studies were excluded. Median survival was the primary outcome measure. The morbidity and mortality of surgical and nonsurgical treatments were compared. RESULTS: Twenty-one studies (no randomized controlled trials) were identified. Most demonstrated a survival benefit for patients who underwent palliative resection. Multivariate analysis indicates that tumour burden and performance status are both major independent prognostic variables. Selection bias, incomplete follow up and nonstandardized reporting of complications make the data difficult to interpret. CONCLUSION: The studies indicate that there may be a survival benefit for primary resection of colorectal cancer in stage IV disease. The findings suggest that resection of the primary tumour should be based on tumour burden and performance status rather than on the presence or absence of symptoms alone."			2012				2038
Sodium bicarbonate therapy for the prevention of contrast-induced acute kidney injury – a systematic review and meta-analysis –		"Jang, J. S., Jin, H. Y., Seo, J. S., Yang, T. H., Kim, D. K., Kim, T. H., Urm, S. H., Kim, D. S., Kim, D. K., Seol, S. H., Kim, D. I., Cho, K. I., Kim, B. H., Park, Y. H., Je, H. G., Ahn, J. M., Kim, W. J., Lee, J. Y. and Lee, S. W."				circulation journal : official journal of the japanese circulation society	circulation journal : official journal of the japanese circulation society	"BACKGROUND: Sodium bicarbonate has been postulated to prevent contrast-induced acute kidney injury (CI-AKI) by various mechanisms, although the reports are conflicting. METHODS AND RESULTS: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane databases for randomized controlled trials that compared a sodium chloride with a sodium bicarbonate hydration regimen with regard to CI-AKI. Data across 19 clinical trials consisting of 3,609 patients were combined. Preprocedural hydration with sodium bicarbonate was associated with a significant decrease in the rate of CI-AKI (odds ratio [OR] 0.56; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.36-0.86; P=0.008). Stratified analyses by the type of contrast medium suggested lower odds of CI-AKI with sodium bicarbonate in studies using low-osmolar contrast media (OR 0.40; 95% CI 0.23-0.71, P=0.002) compared with those using the iso-osmolar agents (OR 0.76; 95% CI 0.41-1.43; P=0.40). No significant difference in the rates of postprocedural death (OR 0.49; 95% CI 0.23-1.04; P=0.06) and the requirement for renal replacement therapy (OR 0.94; 95% CI 0.46-1.91; P=0.86) was observed. However, we found significant changes in serum bicarbonate and potassium levels after sodium bicarbonate infusion. CONCLUSIONS: This updated meta-analysis demonstrates that sodium bicarbonate-based hydration is superior to sodium chloride in preventing CI-AKI of patients undergoing exposure to iodinated contrast media."			2012				1952
Management of cardiovascular disease risk factors in individuals with chronic spinal cord injury: an evidence-based review		"Cragg, J. J., Stone, J. A. and Krassioukov, A. V."				journal of neurotrauma	journal of neurotrauma	"Clinical scenario: A 37-year-old man suffered a complete spinal cord injury (C8, American Spinal Injury Association Impairment Scale [ASIA] score A) 10 years ago in a car accident. Should primary prevention of cardiovascular disease be a priority in this patient? In order to answer this question, we performed a systematic review of the literature to inform an evidence-based clinical review. The objective was to provide a comprehensive and up-to-date review of the clinical management of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and risk factors for individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI). Comprehensive literature searches were performed. The quality of each study was assessed using the Physiotherapy Evidence Database Scale for randomized controlled trials, and the Downs and Black Scale for all other studies. Levels of evidence were assigned using a modified version of Sackett's scale. Our findings indicate that CVD is a critical issue in individuals with chronic SCI. Almost all risk factors for CVD are amplified in individuals with SCI, including physical inactivity, dyslipidemia, blood pressure irregularities, abnormal glycemic control, and chronic inflammation. However, there is a paucity of high-quality literature with respect to treatment outcomes in SCI-specific study populations (a total of 22 intervention studies in all of these categories combined) that allow for the development of evidence-informed clinical practice recommendations. These limitations notwithstanding, we present a series of contemporary practice suggestions with regard to CVD event risk modification in SCI patients. For optimal outcomes, health care providers should be cognizant of these heightened CVD risk factors and the resultant increased CVD morbidity and mortality in SCI patients. Despite the absence of high-quality evidence-based treatment strategies, clinicians should re-examine their own CVD risk factor treatment strategies to better reflect contemporary practice in similar high-CVD-event-risk patients and populations."			2012				2264
A systematic review of transapical aortic valve implantation		"Rahnavardi, M., Santibanez, J., Sian, K. and Yan, T. D."				annals of cardiothoracic surgery	annals of cardiothoracic surgery	"BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) through a transapical approach (TAAVI) for severe aortic stenosis becomes the procedure of choice in cases where patients have peripheral artery disease and unfeasible access due to excessive atherosclerotic disease of the iliofemoral vessels and aorta. The present systematic review aimed to assess the safety, success rate, clinical outcomes, hemodynamic outcomes, and survival benefits of TAAVI. METHODS: Electronic searches were performed in 6 databases from January 2000 to February 2012. The primary end points included feasibility and safety. Other end points included echocardiographic findings, functional class improvement, and survival. RESULTS: After applying the inclusion and exclusion criteria, 48 out of 154 shortlisted potentially relevant articles were selected for assessment. Of these, 26 studies from 24 centers including total number of 2,807 patients were included for appraisal and data extraction. The current evidence on TAAVI for aortic stenosis is limited to observational studies. Successful TAAVI implantation occurred in >90% of patients. On average, the procedure took between 64 to 154 minutes to complete. The incidence of major adverse events included 30-day mortality (4.7-20.8%); cerebrovascular accident (0-16.3%); major tachyarrhythmia (0-48.8%); bradyarrhythmia requiring permanent pacemaker insertion (0-18.7%); cardiac tamponade (0-11%); major bleeding (1-17%); myocardial infarction (0-6%); aortic dissection/rupture (0-5%); moderate to severe paravalvular leak (0.7-24%); cardiopulmonary bypass support (0-15%); conversion to surgery (0-9.5%); and valve-in-valve implantation (0.6-8%). Mean aortic valve area improved from 0.4-0.7 cm(2) before TAAVI to 1.4-2.1 cm(2) after TAAVI. The peak pressure gradient across the aortic valve decreased from >70 mmHg to <20 mmHg after TAAVI. One-year survival ranged from 49.3% to 82% and the 3-year survival was 58% in 2 series. CONCLUSIONS: TAAVI appears to be feasible with a reasonable safety and efficacy portfolio. Randomised controlled trials are required to compare transapical vs. transfemoral TAVI when both techniques are equally feasible."			2012				1027
Combination therapy an ACE inhibitor and an angiotensin receptor blocker for IgA nephropathy: a meta-analysis		"Cheng, J., Zhang, X., Tian, J., Li, Q. and Chen, J."				international journal of clinical practice	international journal of clinical practice	"Objective: The pathogenesis of IgA nephropathy (IgAN) is still unknown. Combination therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) plus angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) might provide more benefits to IgAN patients. We conducted a systematic review to assess the efficacy of combination therapy for IgAN. Methods: The MEDLINE, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library and article reference lists were searched for randomised clinical trials (RCTs) which involved combination therapy ACEI plus ARB in only one arm. A meta-analysis was performed on the outcomes of proteinuria and renal function in IgAN patients. Results: Six RCTs involving 109 patients were included in the review. Combined treatment with ACEI plus ARB was more effective than with ACEI/ARB alone for reducing daily proteinuria. This did not translate into an improvement in GFR. Patients receiving ACEI plus ARB therapy did not have an increased risk of hyperkalemia. Conclusions: The current cumulative evidence suggests that combination therapy ACEI plus ARB may provide more benefits to IgAN patients for reducing daily proteinuria. Long-term effects of these agents on renal outcomes, and safety need to be established."			2012				2248
"Meta-analysis of re-operation, nonunion, and infection after open reduction and internal fixation of patella fractures"		"Dy, C. J., Little, M. T., Berkes, M. B., Ma, Y., Roberts, T. R., Helfet, D. L. and Lorich, D. G."				the journal of trauma and acute care surgery	the journal of trauma and acute care surgery	"BACKGROUND: The subcutaneous location of the patella and the demand for early knee motion contribute to the difficulty in treating patients with patella fractures. The reported rates in the literature for hardware removal after patella open reduction and internal fixation range from 0% to 60%. The wide variability of these reports leaves the true frequency of re-operation and complications after patella open reduction and internal fixation in question. Furthermore, gaining a better understanding of the factors that contribute to re-operation and complications will help to generate hypotheses and research agendas to address these difficult problems. METHODS: We performed a systematic review to identify publications in which adult patients with patella fractures were surgically treated with a minimum of 6-month follow-up. The surgical technique (tension band or other), infection rate, nonunion rate, and re-operation rate (including removal of hardware) were recorded. Meta-regression analysis was used to describe the potential contributory factors for re-operation, nonunion, and infection while controlling for age, gender, open fracture, surgical technique, and date of publication. Separate regression models were constructed for each outcome depending on the number of studies available for inclusion. RESULTS: The frequency of re-operation was 33.6% in a meta-analysis of 24 studies (737 patella fractures). The frequency of infection was 3.2% in a meta-analysis of 18 studies (522 patella fractures). The frequency of nonunion was 1.3% in a meta-analysis of 15 studies (464 patella fractures). There were no significant predictors for re-operation, nonunion, or infection in any of the regression analyses. CONCLUSION: Although the frequencies of nonunion and infection are relatively low after surgical treatment of patella fractures, the modern rate of re-operation is substantial. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Meta-analysis, level III+."			2012				2511
Prevention of Contrast-Induced Nephropathy in STEMI Patients Undergoing Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention: A Systematic Review		"Busch, S. V., Jensen, S. E., Rosenberg, J. and Gögenur, I."				journal of interventional cardiology	journal of interventional cardiology	"OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the current prophylactic strategies against CIN in patients with STEMI treated by primary percutaneous coronary intervention. BACKGROUND: Contrast-induced nephropathy (CIN) is the third leading course of acute renal failure and a recognized complication to cardiac catheterization. CIN is associated with increased risk of cardiac adverse events and mortality, and recent studies point at the risk of developing a transient or persistent renal dysfunction. Patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction treated by primary percutaneous coronary intervention have a markedly increased risk of developing CIN. At present no strategy is universally accepted in the prevention of CIN in the acute setting of primary percutaneous coronary intervention. METHOD: We performed a systematic search in Pubmed and EMBASE and ended up including nine randomised clinical trials; six studies of N-acetylcysteine, one study of early and late hydration regimens, one study of recombinant human brain natriuretic peptide and one study comparing a low-osmolar contrast agent with an iso-osmolar contrast agent. RESULTS: Recombinant human brain natriuretic peptide and the regimens of hydration significantly reduced the incidence of CIN and administration of N-acetylcysteine in one of the six studies significantly reduced the occurrence of CIN. The iso-osmolar contrast agent was not proven to be superior to the low-osmolar contrast agent in terms of preventing CIN. CONCLUSION: Preliminary studies are promising but further studies are needed before any prevention strategy against CIN can be recommended in routine care of patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention for STEMI."			2013				3427
Flow-diverting stents for the treatment of arterial aneurysms		"Sfyroeras, G. S., Dalainas, I., Giannakopoulos, T. G., Antonopoulos, K., Kakisis, J. D. and Liapis, C. D."				journal of vascular surgery	journal of vascular surgery	"BACKGROUND: Anatomic factors may limit the application of stent grafts for the treatment of arterial aneurysms. Flow- diverting stents (FDSs) are specially designed to reduce flow velocity in the aneurysm sac and promote thrombosis while maintaining flow in the main artery and branch vessels. FDSs include the Pipeline Embolization Device (ev3, Plymouth, Minn), the SILK Arterial Reconstruction Device (Balt Extrusion, Montmorency, France), and the Cardiatis Multilayer Stent (Cardiatis, Isnes, Belgium). The first two have been mainly used for the treatment of intracranial aneurysms. The aim of this study was to review the current role of FDSs in the treatment of extracranial arterial aneurysms. METHODS: A systematic electronic health database search was conducted using PubMed, Ovid, Medline, and the Cochrane Database on all accessible published articles through March 2012. An additional search for abstracts presented in international congresses for vascular surgery was also performed. Full-text articles and abstracts were analyzed separately due to the heterogeneity of the data. RESULTS: Results of the use of FDSs in arterial aneurysms were reported in 12 full-text articles including 35 patients (26 men, age 65.4) with 38 aneurysms. The aneurysms were located in the hepatic (n = 12), splenic (n = 6), renal (n = 5), celiac (n = 4), superior mesenteric (n = 3), subclavian (n = 2), gastroduodenal (n = 1), and popliteal arteries (n = 1) and in the descending thoracic (n = 1), suprarenal (n = 1) and infrarenal aorta (n = 2). The 30-day mortality was 5.7% (2 of 35 patients). Three stent thromboses occurred (8.3%), none of them with clinical consequences. Thirty patients with 33 aneurysms and patent FDSs were monitored for an average of 9.2 months. Thrombosis occurred in 90.6%, and volume reduction was observed in 81% of the aneurysms. No branch vessel occlusion occurred. Twelve abstracts were identified, including 133 patients (mean age, 64.7 years). They included 62 peripheral, 28 visceral, and 43 abdominal and thoracoabdominal aneurysms. The Cardiatis Multilayer Stent was used in all cases. Thrombosis was achieved in all but two peripheral and visceral aneurysms. Volume reduction was observed in 82.7%, and no branch vessel occlusion occurred. In aortic aneurysms, better results regarding aneurysm thrombosis, reduction of the volume, and patency of collateral branches were reported at 12 months rather than at 6 months postoperatively. No aneurysm rupture has yet been described. CONCLUSIONS: Initial clinical experience with the use of FDSs in the treatment of visceral and peripheral aneurysms yielded satisfactory results in technical success, aneurysm thrombosis and shrinkage, and in patency of branch vessels. The results in aortic aneurysms are still under investigation. No aneurysm rupture has yet been described. There is a significant incidence of FDS thrombosis. Volume reduction of the aneurysm is a clearer evidence of the clinical success after treatment with FDSs than aneurysm thrombosis."			2012				2603
Efficacy and safety of deep brain stimulation in patients with medication-induced tardive dyskinesia and/or dystonia: a systematic review		"Mentzel, C. L., Tenback, D. E., Tijssen, M. A., Visser-Vandewalle, V. E. and van Harten, P. N."				the journal of clinical psychiatry	the journal of clinical psychiatry	"BACKGROUND: Tardive dyskinesia and dystonia (TDD) are severe side effects of dopamine-blocking agents, particularly antipsychotics. While deep brain stimulation (DBS) has proven effective in the treatment of TDD, little is known about the possible psychiatric complications of DBS in psychiatric patients. OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and safety, specifically the psychiatric side effects, of DBS in patients with medication-induced TDD. DATA SOURCES: PubMed and EMBASE databases were searched systematically on May 25, 2011, for articles written in English, using the search terms deep brain stimulation AND tardive. STUDY SELECTION: Of the 88 original articles retrieved, 17 studies involving 50 patients with TDD who underwent DBS were included in the review. DATA EXTRACTION: Data on the severity of the movement disorders before and after DBS, as rated on the Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale or similar scales, were extracted. Data on psychiatric symptoms before and after DBS were used to calculate the percent improvement per patient per rating scale. Overall improvement and confidence intervals were calculated using a 1-sample, 2-sided Student t test. RESULTS: The mean improvement of TDD of the combined patients 3 to 76 months after implantation was 77.5% (95% CI, 71.4%-83.3%; P < .000) on the Burke-Fahn-Marsden Dystonia Rating Scale. Of the 50 patients, 1 experienced an exacerbation of depression, and 1 experienced an exacerbation of psychosis. CONCLUSIONS: DBS seems to be effective and relatively safe for patients with treatment-resistant TDD; however, the results should be interpreted with caution, as most of the data are from case reports and small trials."			2012				1970
[Therapy of triangular fibrocartilage complex lesions]		"Schädel-Höpfner, M., Müller, K., Gehrmann, S., Lögters, T. T. and Windolf, J."				der unfallchirurg	der unfallchirurg	"The triangular fibrocartilage complex (TFCC) represents an important anatomical structure interposed between the ulnar carpus and the distal ulnar. Injuries and degenerative changes of the TFCC are of high clinical relevance and there are numerous treatment options available based on different concepts and which are being used to varying extents. The aim of this systematic review was to evaluate the effectiveness of different therapies for lesions of the TFCC. Studies on TFCC lesions were systematically reviewed, classified into evidence levels and selected according to predefined criteria. A total of 259 publications were identified as being potentially relevant and finally 35 studies could be included in the review. In addition, a survey was performed among German hand surgeons in order to identify commonly used procedures for TFCC lesions in Germany. The classification of Palmer is mostly used both in the literature and in Germany and therapeutic decisions are predominantly based on this classification. The systematic review revealed some common treatment strategies for traumatic and degenerative lesions. Generally, the level of evidence was poor for all identified publications. For this reason, evidence-based recommendations for the treatment of TFCC lesions could not be derived from the literature. There was broad consent between the results of the literature review and the survey."			2012				2078
Financial incentives for smoking cessation among pregnant and newly postpartum women		"Higgins, S. T., Washio, Y., Heil, S. H., Solomon, L. J., Gaalema, D. E., Higgins, T. M. and Bernstein, I. M."				preventive medicine	preventive medicine	"OBJECTIVE: Smoking during pregnancy is the leading preventable cause of poor pregnancy outcomes in the U.S., causing serious immediate and longer-term adverse effects for mothers and offspring. In this report we provide a narrative review of research on the use of financial incentives to promote abstinence from cigarette smoking during pregnancy, an intervention wherein women earn vouchers exchangeable for retail items contingent on biochemically-verified abstinence from recent smoking. METHODS: Published reports based on controlled trials are reviewed. All of the reviewed research was conducted by one of two research groups who have investigated this treatment approach. RESULTS: Results from six controlled trials with economically disadvantaged pregnant smokers support the efficacy of financial incentives for increasing smoking abstinence rates antepartum and early postpartum. Results from three trials provide evidence that the intervention improves sonographically estimated fetal growth, mean birth weight, percent of low-birth-weight deliveries, and breastfeeding duration. CONCLUSIONS: The systematic use of financial incentives has promise as an efficacious intervention for promoting smoking cessation among economically disadvantaged pregnant and recently postpartum women and improving birth outcomes. Additional trials in larger and more diverse samples are warranted to further evaluate the merits of this treatment approach."			2012				2365
A systematic review of single-bundle versus double-bundle anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction		"Longo, U. G., Buchmann, S., Franceschetti, E., Maffulli, N. and Denaro, V."				british medical bulletin	british medical bulletin	"INTRODUCTION: Double-bundle (DB) anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction is becoming increasingly common. However, no definitive data on the superiority of DB reconstruction have been shown when compared with single-bundle (SB) ACL reconstruction. SOURCES OF DATA: We performed a comprehensive search of PubMed, Medline, Cochrane, CINAHL and Embase databases using various combinations of keywords such as 'ACL', 'reconstruction', 'DB' and 'SB'. Only articles published in peer-reviewed journals were included in this systematic review. AREAS OF AGREEMENT: Several new techniques are available for ACL reconstruction. DB ACL reconstruction could provide better outcome for patients in terms of closer restoration of normal knee biomechanics and improving the rotatory laxity of the knee. AREAS OF CONTROVERSY: Data are lacking to allow definitive conclusions on the use of DB reconstruction techniques for routine management of patients with ACL tear. GROWING POINTS: Given the limitations of the current studies, it is not possible to recommend systematic use of DB ACL reconstruction. Even though biomechanical results are encouraging, subjective patient evaluation is similar for SB and DB reconstruction. AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING RESEARCH: Studies of higher levels of evidence, for instances large adequately powered randomized trials, should be conducted to bring new insight in this field. With the current evidence available, a simple SB ACL reconstruction is a suitable technique, and it should be not abandoned until stronger scientific evidence in favour of DB ACL reconstruction will be produced."			2012				1139
A systematic review of the effect of low-level laser therapy in the management of breast cancer-related lymphedema		"Omar, M. T., Shaheen, A. A. and Zafar, H."				supportive care in cancer : official journal of the multinational association of supportive care in cancer	supportive care in cancer : official journal of the multinational association of supportive care in cancer	"PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to review the effect of low-level laser therapy (LLLT) in the management of breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL). METHODS: A systematic review of seven databases for clinical trials for LLLT in the management of BCRL published between 1990 and 2011 was performed. RESULTS: A total of eight studies on 230 patients were found. The methodological qualities of the selected studies were assessed with the Physiotherapy Evidence Database scale, and the studies were categorized according to Sackett's levels of evidence. Five studies were graded at evidence level II. Two studies were graded at evidence level III, and the remaining study was graded at evidence level V. CONCLUSIONS: There is moderate to strong evidence for the effectiveness of LLLT for the management of BCRL from five small studies of acceptable methodological quality. A dose of 1-2 J/cm(2) per point applied to several points covering the fibrotic area can reduce limb volume following BCRL. Further well-designed, large-scale studies are required to determine more precisely how effective LLLT may be in BCRL."			2012				1448
Intratympanic steroid treatment for sudden deafness: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials		"Garavello, W., Galluzzi, F., Gaini, R. M. and Zanetti, D."				"otology & neurotology : official publication of the american otological society, american neurotology society [and] european academy of otology and neurotology"	"otology & neurotology : official publication of the american otological society, american neurotology society [and] european academy of otology and neurotology"	"BACKGROUND: The efficacy of intratympanic steroid (ITS) treatment in sudden deafness (SD) remains controversial. To shed light on this issue, we performed a systematic review of randomized controlled trials to assess the overall efficacy of ITS therapy and to clarify whether it is more suitable as a first-line approach (primary treatment) or as a salvage treatment when traditional systemic agents have failed. METHODS: An electronic database search (MEDLINE and PubMed) was performed with the objective of identifying all studies published in the English language between January 1980 and November 2011 on the efficacy of ITS in the treatment of SD. All relevant articles were retrieved, and the related reference lists were reviewed systematically to identify other reports that could be included. Data were synthesized using the Mantel-Haenszel model. Results are expressed as odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI). RESULTS: A total of 11 randomized studies including 472 subjects allocated to ITS and 453 controls were selected. Intratympanic steroid regimens used and treatments administered to controls varied widely across studies. When considering together trials investigating ITS therapy as a primary (n = 4) or salvage (n = 7) treatment, the common OR for recovery was 1.7 (95% CI, 1.3-2.3). When considering them separately, the common ORs for recovery were 0.9 (95% CI, 0.7-1.6) for primary and 2.9 (95% CI, 1.9-4.5) for salvage therapy. CONCLUSION: Intratympanic steroid therapy seems to confer a certain degree of benefit as a salvage but not as a primary treatment of SD. However, further evidence is needed to clarify some yet uncertain aspects, such as the optimal protocol of therapy."			2012				2514
Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials on probiotics for hepatic encephalopathy		"Holte, K., Krag, A. and Gluud, L. L."				hepatology research : the official journal of the japan society of hepatology	hepatology research : the official journal of the japan society of hepatology	"AIM: ? The objective of this systematic review and meta-analysis was to assess the efficacy of probiotics and synbiotics in patients with hepatic encephalopathy. METHODS: ? Eligible trials were identified by searching electronic databases including MEDLINE, the Cochrane Library, Science Citation Index and Embase, abstract proceedings, reference lists and ongoing trial registers until 13?October 2010. We included randomized controlled trials comparing probiotics and synbiotics with no intervention, placebo or lactulose in patients with hepatic encephalopathy. The primary outcome measure was improvement in hepatic encephalopathy. RESULTS were expressed as risk rates (RR) with confidence intervals (CI) and intertrial heterogeneity as I(2) . RESULTS: ? Seven trials with a total of 393 patients were analyzed. Compared to placebo or lactulose, treatment with probiotics or synbiotics significantly improved hepatic encephalopathy (RR?=?1.40, 95% CI?=?1.05-1.86, I(2) ?=?5%). Probiotics decreased arterial ammonia (weighted mean difference 15.95; 95% CI?=?26.72-3.28; I(2) ?=?68%), but not venous ammonia (weighted mean difference 5.23; 95% CI?=?21.77-11.30; I(2) ?=?89%). Treatment with probiotics or synbiotics did not significantly affect the psychometric tests. Overall adverse events were reported in four trials with no difference between probiotics and placebo groups (RR?=?0.32, 95% CI?=?0.04-2.57; I(2) ?=?59%). Regression analysis showed evidence of small-study effects. CONCLUSION: ? The present meta-analysis suggests that probiotics may be an effective treatment of hepatic encephalopathy, though rigorous evaluation in standardized, randomized, clinical trial with clinically relevant outcomes is still needed."			2012				1271
"Fat grafting: evidence-based review on autologous fat harvesting, processing, reinjection, and storage"		"Gir, P., Brown, S. A., Oni, G., Kashefi, N., Mojallal, A. and Rohrich, R. J."				plastic and reconstructive surgery	plastic and reconstructive surgery	"BACKGROUND: Over the past 20 years, there has been a dramatic increase in the use of autologous fat grafting to treat volume and contour defects in aesthetic and reconstructive surgery. It is generally accepted that fat grafting is safe, with good patient satisfaction. However, there are many procedural variations, and in terms of objective clinical effectiveness, the major disadvantage of this technique remains the unpredictable fat resorption rates and subsequent adverse events. Because of the rapidly evolving nature of this procedure, this review article provides an update on previous reviews by looking at the current evidence base regarding fat graft techniques and their effect on clinical outcome. METHODS: A systematic review of the scientific literature listed on PubMed was performed using 20 search terms focused on harvesting, processing, reinjection, and conservation of fat grafting. An evidence-based system was used to determine eligibility for clinical and preclinical studies. RESULTS: Thirty-seven articles were selected based on inclusion and exclusion criteria: five articles were clinical trials and 32 were experimental comparative studies examining human fat grafting. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review revealed a lack of high-quality data despite the increase in fat grafting over the past 20 years. At present, there is no evidence that supports specific procedural standardization. Evidence-based studies that incorporate randomized controlled, prospective, multicenter trials are required to understand which factors influence positive fat grafting clinical outcomes."			2012				2087